docs/developer-guide/media/thumbnails.md, before:

# Thumbnail Generation and Storage

## Introduction

PhotoPrism currently uses the [disintegration/imaging](https://github.com/disintegration/imaging) package to generate thumbnail images that are displayed in search results and in the full-screen viewer.

The smallest configurable size limit is 720px, which corresponds to the `fit_720` [thumbnail type](#thumbnail-types). All sizes up to 720x720 will be generated by default and should therefore always be available.

Besides their obvious use in the frontend, the indexer uses thumbnails for color detection, face detection, and image classification, see [Advanced Settings](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md) in the [User Guide](../../user-guide/index.md).

## Thumbnail Types

The smallest configurable static and dynamic size limit is 720px, so all formats up to `fit_720` should be generated
by default while indexing.

Higher settings allow PhotoPrism to generate thumbnails with more detail in higher resolutions - either 
*statically* (while indexing) or *dynamically* (on-demand).

|   Name    | Width | Height | Aspect Ratio |          Usage          |
|-----------|-------|--------|--------------|-------------------------|
| colors    |     3 |      3 | 1:1          | Color Detection         |
| tile_50   |    50 |     50 | 1:1          | List View               |
| tile_100  |   100 |    100 | 1:1          | Places View             |
| left_224  |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | TensorFlow              |
| right_224 |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | TensorFlow              |
| tile_224  |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | TensorFlow, Mosaic View |
| tile_500  |   500 |    500 | 1:1          | Cards View              |
| fit_720   |   720 |    720 | Preserved    | SD TV, Mobile           |
| tile_1080 |  1080 |   1080 | 1:1          | Instagram               |
| fit_1280  |  1280 |   1024 | Preserved    | HD TV, SXGA             |
| fit_1600  |  1600 |    900 | Preserved    | Social Media            |
| fit_1920  |  1920 |   1200 | Preserved    | Full HD                 |
| fit_2048  |  2048 |   2048 | Preserved    | DCI 2K, Tablets         |
| fit_2560  |  2560 |   1600 | Preserved    | Quad HD, Notebooks      |
| fit_3840  |  3840 |   2400 | Preserved    | 4K Ultra HD             |
| fit_4096  |  4096 |   4096 | Preserved    | DCI 4K, Retina 4K       |
| fit_7680  |  7680 |   4320 | Preserved    | 8K Ultra HD 2           |

↪ [`internal/thumb/sizes.go`](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/internal/thumb/sizes.go)

## Storage Folders

Generated thumbnails are cached in sub-folders of `/storage/cache/thumbnails` based on the SHA1 hash of the original file,
for example:

```
/storage/cache/thumbnails/1/a/3/1a30c1f...9_100x100_center.jpg
```

## Downscaling Filters

### Linear

Bilinear interpolation takes a weighted average of the four
neighborhood pixels to calculate its final interpolated
value. The result is a much smoother image than the original
image. When all known pixel distances are equal, then the
interpolated value is simply their sum divided by four.
This technique performs interpolation in both directions,
horizontal and vertical. This technique gives better result
than nearest neighbor interpolation and take less
computation time compared to bicubic interpolation.

### Cubic

Catmull-Rom is a local interpolating spline developed for
computer graphics purposes. Its initial use was in design
of curves and surfaces, and has recently been used in
several applications. Catmull-Rom splines are a family of
cubic interpolating splines formulated such that the
tangent at each point is calculated using the previous and
next point on the spline. The results are similar to ones
produced by bicubic interpolation with regards to
sharpness, but the Catmull-Rom reconstruction is clearly
superior in smooth signal region.

### Lanczos

The Lanczos interpolation function is a mathematical formula
used to smoothly interpolate the value of a digital
image between its samples. It maps each sample of the
given image to a translated and scaled copy of the Lanczos
kernel, which is a sinc function windowed by the central
hump of a dilated sinc function. The sum of these
translated and scaled kernels is then evaluated at the
desired pixel. Lanczos interpolation has the **best
properties in terms of detail preservation and minimal
generation of aliasing artifacts** for geometric
transformations not involving strong down sampling.
However higher order Lanczos interpolation requires high
computational time, which makes it unsuitable for
most commercial software.

### Blackman

Blackman is a modification of Lanczos that has better control of ringing artifacts.

## Server API ##

Like most commercial image hosting services, we have chosen to implement a **cookie-free thumbnail API** to minimize request latency by avoiding unnecessary network traffic.

[Learn more ›](../api/thumbnails.md)

## Further Reading ##

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_scaling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lanczos_resampling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_gallery_of_image_scaling_algorithms

Commit message:

Developer Guide: Improve Thumbnail API description in thumbnails.md
see https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues/4300

docs/developer-guide/media/thumbnails.md, after:

# Thumbnail Generation and Storage

## Introduction

PhotoPrism currently uses the [disintegration/imaging](https://github.com/disintegration/imaging) package to generate thumbnail images that are displayed in search results and in the full-screen viewer.

The smallest configurable size limit is 720px, which corresponds to the `fit_720` [thumbnail type](#thumbnail-types). All sizes up to 720x720 will be generated by default and should therefore always be available.

Besides their obvious use in the frontend, the indexer uses thumbnails for color detection, face detection, and image classification, see [Advanced Settings](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md) in the [User Guide](../../user-guide/index.md).

## Thumbnail Types

The smallest configurable static and dynamic size limit is 720px, so most formats up to `fit_720` are **always** generated by default.
[Higher size limits](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md#dynamic-and-static-size-limits) generate thumbnails with more detail at higher resolutions - either statically (pre-generated while indexing) or **on demand** if the [configuration permits](../../getting-started/config-options.md#preview-images).

**Optional** thumbnail types cannot be pre-generated and are only rendered on request, for example when sharing an image on Instagram.

The following overview shows the size and aspect ratio for each thumbnail type as well as a description of how it is used:

|   Name    | Width | Height | Aspect Ratio | Available |          Usage          |
|-----------|-------|--------|--------------|-----------|-------------------------|
| colors    |     3 |      3 | 1:1          | Always    | Color Detection         |
| tile_50   |    50 |     50 | 1:1          | Always    | List View               |
| tile_100  |   100 |    100 | 1:1          | Always    | Places View             |
| left_224  |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | On-Demand | TensorFlow              |
| right_224 |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | On-Demand | TensorFlow              |
| tile_224  |   224 |    224 | 1:1          | Always    | TensorFlow, Mosaic View |
| tile_500  |   500 |    500 | 1:1          | Always    | Cards View              |
| fit_720   |   720 |    720 | Preserved    | Always    | SD TV, Mobile           |
| tile_1080 |  1080 |   1080 | 1:1          | Optional  | Instagram               |
| fit_1280  |  1280 |   1024 | Preserved    | On-Demand | HD TV, SXGA             |
| fit_1600  |  1600 |    900 | Preserved    | Optional  | Social Media            |
| fit_1920  |  1920 |   1200 | Preserved    | On-Demand | Full HD                 |
| fit_2048  |  2048 |   2048 | Preserved    | Optional  | DCI 2K, Tablets         |
| fit_2560  |  2560 |   1600 | Preserved    | On-Demand | Quad HD, Notebooks      |
| fit_3840  |  3840 |   2400 | Preserved    | Optional  | 4K Ultra HD             |
| fit_4096  |  4096 |   4096 | Preserved    | On-Demand | DCI 4K, Retina 4K       |
| fit_7680  |  7680 |   4320 | Preserved    | On-Demand | 8K Ultra HD 2           |

↪ [`internal/thumb/sizes.go`](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/internal/thumb/sizes.go)

!!! tldr ""
    Generated thumbnail files are stored in the `storage/cache/thumbnails` folder, where the path and file name depend on the size and file hash, e.g. `storage/cache/thumbnails/1/a/3/1a30c1f...9_100x100_center.jpg`.

## Storage Folders

Generated thumbnails are cached in sub-folders of `/storage/cache/thumbnails` based on the SHA1 hash of the original file,
for example:

```
/storage/cache/thumbnails/1/a/3/1a30c1f...9_100x100_center.jpg
```

## Downscaling Filters

### Linear

Bilinear interpolation takes a weighted average of the four
neighborhood pixels to calculate its final interpolated
value. The result is a much smoother image than the original
image. When all known pixel distances are equal, then the
interpolated value is simply their sum divided by four.
This technique performs interpolation in both directions,
horizontal and vertical. This technique gives better result
than nearest neighbor interpolation and take less
computation time compared to bicubic interpolation.

### Cubic

Catmull-Rom is a local interpolating spline developed for
computer graphics purposes. Its initial use was in design
of curves and surfaces, and has recently been used in
several applications. Catmull-Rom splines are a family of
cubic interpolating splines formulated such that the
tangent at each point is calculated using the previous and
next point on the spline. The results are similar to ones
produced by bicubic interpolation with regards to
sharpness, but the Catmull-Rom reconstruction is clearly
superior in smooth signal region.

### Lanczos

The Lanczos interpolation function is a mathematical formula
used to smoothly interpolate the value of a digital
image between its samples. It maps each sample of the
given image to a translated and scaled copy of the Lanczos
kernel, which is a sinc function windowed by the central
hump of a dilated sinc function. The sum of these
translated and scaled kernels is then evaluated at the
desired pixel. Lanczos interpolation has the **best
properties in terms of detail preservation and minimal
generation of aliasing artifacts** for geometric
transformations not involving strong down sampling.
However higher order Lanczos interpolation requires high
computational time, which makes it unsuitable for
most commercial software.

### Blackman

Blackman is a modification of Lanczos that has better control of ringing artifacts.

## Server API ##

Like most commercial image hosting services, we have chosen to implement a **cookie-free thumbnail API** to minimize request latency by avoiding unnecessary network traffic.

[Learn more ›](../api/thumbnails.md)

## Further Reading ##

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_scaling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lanczos_resampling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_gallery_of_image_scaling_algorithms
