# Thumbnail Images

PhotoPrism uses the [disintegration/imaging](https://github.com/disintegration/imaging) package to generate thumbnail
images that are displayed in search results and in the full-screen viewer.

The smallest configurable size limit is 720px, which corresponds to the `fit_720` [thumbnail type](#thumbnail-types).
All sizes up to 720x720 will be generated by default and should therefore always be available.

Besides their obvious use in the frontend, the indexer uses thumbnails for color detection, face detection, and
image classification, see [Advanced Settings](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md) in the [User Guide](../../user-guide/index.md).

## Server API ##

### No Cookies Required ###

A cookie-free API helps minimize request latency by avoiding unnecessary network traffic:

- when a browser requests static files such as images from a server via HTTPS, it is generally needless to send a
  cookie along with each request if the URLs cannot be guessed, so for most practical use cases
- one potential use of cookies can be to prevent the user from intentionally or accidentally sharing confidential thumbnail URLs with others
- this is possible on most image hosting services/social media sites and could also be considered a feature if you just want to share a few thumbnails without any bells and whistles
- once an image has been downloaded by someone else, blocking the original URL provides little additional security, as digital copies are just as good as the original
- keeping this in mind, previously shared URLs can be invalidated by [changing the security token in your configuration](../../getting-started/config-options.md#url-tokens)
- this renders the browser cache unusable on all connected devices, requiring previously cached thumbnails to be downloaded again
- be aware that frequent token changes lead to performance degradation and a poor user experience

Another major benefit of a cookie-free thumbnail API - besides improved performance - is that users can easily  integrate a content delivery network (CDN), as there is no need to check cookies on edge servers.

Because most users have only one domain/host name and modern web applications can store authentication tokens in
*localStorage* instead, our REST API does not require or use any cookies by default.

**See also:**

- https://www.keycdn.com/support/how-to-use-cookie-free-domains
- https://ourcodeworld.com/articles/read/1341/why-you-should-use-a-cookie-less-domain-for-serving-your-static-content-cdn
- https://pragmaticwebsecurity.com/articles/oauthoidc/localstorage-xss.html

### Image Endpoint URI ####

Authenticated with SHA1 hash and additional security token:

```
/api/v1/t/a2195b6840f46b555719d8e22e9b080e61a7317c/10d68214/tile_500
```

In public mode without security token:

```
/api/v1/t/a2195b6840f46b555719d8e22e9b080e61a7317c/public/tile_500
```

The thumbnail [size and aspect ratio](#thumbnail-types) are specified at the end, in this case `tile_500`, which means 500x500 pixels.

### Video Endpoint URI ####

Authenticated with SHA1 hash and additional security token:

```
/api/v1/videos/51843134d75f4cbde534270cdd5954067f887ee6/10d68214/avc
```

In public mode without security token:

```
/api/v1/videos/51843134d75f4cbde534270cdd5954067f887ee6/public/avc
```

Videos can be streamed if the browser supports it. The format is specified at the end, in this case MPEG-4 AVC.

## Thumbnail Types ####

The smallest configurable static and dynamic size limit is 720px, so all formats up to `fit_720` should be generated
by default while indexing.

Higher settings allow PhotoPrism to generate thumbnails with more detail in higher resolutions - either 
*statically* (while indexing) or *dynamically* (on-demand).

 Name       | Width | Height | Common Use               |
:-----------|:-----:|:------:|:-------------------------|
`colors`    |   3   |   3    | Color Detection          |
`tile_50`   |  50   |   50   | List Preview             |
`tile_100`  |  100  |  100   | Maps Preview             |
`tile_224`  |  224  |  224   | Mosaic Preview           |
`left_224`  |  224  |  224   | TensorFlow               |
`right_224` |  224  |  224   | TensorFlow               |
`tile_500`  |  500  |  500   | Cards Preview            |
`fit_720`   |  720  |  720   | Mobile, TV               |
`fit_1280`  | 1280  |  1024  | Mobile, HD Ready TV      |
`fit_1920`  | 1920  |  1200  | Mobile, Full HD TV       |
`fit_2048`  | 2048  |  2048  | Tablets, Cinema 2K       |
`fit_2560`  | 2560  |  1600  | Quad HD, Retina Display  |
`fit_3840`  | 3840  |  2400  | Ultra HD                 |
`fit_4096`  | 4096  |  4096  | Ultra HD, Retina 4K      |
`fit_7680`  | 7680  |  4320  | 8K Ultra HD 2, Retina 6K |

See [`/internal/thumb/sizes.go`](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/internal/thumb/sizes.go) for details.

## Storage Folders ##

Generated thumbnails are cached in sub-folders of `/storage/cache/thumbnails` based on the SHA1 hash of the original file,
for example:

```
/storage/cache/thumbnails/1/a/3/1a30c1f...9_100x100_center.jpg
```

## Downscaling Filters

### Linear

Bilinear interpolation takes a weighted average of the four
neighborhood pixels to calculate its final interpolated
value. The result is a much smoother image than the original
image. When all known pixel distances are equal, then the
interpolated value is simply their sum divided by four.
This technique performs interpolation in both directions,
horizontal and vertical. This technique gives better result
than nearest neighbor interpolation and take less
computation time compared to bicubic interpolation.

### Cubic

Catmull-Rom is a local interpolating spline developed for
computer graphics purposes. Its initial use was in design
of curves and surfaces, and has recently been used in
several applications. Catmull-Rom splines are a family of
cubic interpolating splines formulated such that the
tangent at each point is calculated using the previous and
next point on the spline. The results are similar to ones
produced by bicubic interpolation with regards to
sharpness, but the Catmull-Rom reconstruction is clearly
superior in smooth signal region.

### Lanczos

The Lanczos interpolation function is a mathematical formula
used to smoothly interpolate the value of a digital
image between its samples. It maps each sample of the
given image to a translated and scaled copy of the Lanczos
kernel, which is a sinc function windowed by the central
hump of a dilated sinc function. The sum of these
translated and scaled kernels is then evaluated at the
desired pixel. Lanczos interpolation has the **best
properties in terms of detail preservation and minimal
generation of aliasing artifacts** for geometric
transformations not involving strong down sampling.
However higher order Lanczos interpolation requires high
computational time, which makes it unsuitable for
most commercial software.

### Blackman

Blackman is a modification of Lanczos that has better control of ringing artifacts.

## Further Reading ##

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_scaling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lanczos_resampling
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_gallery_of_image_scaling_algorithms
