docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/index.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Checklists

!!! info ""
    You are welcome to ask for help in our [community chat](https://gitter.im/browseyourlife/community).
    [Sponsors](../../funding.md) receive direct [technical support](https://photoprism.app/contact) via email.
    Before [submitting a support request](../../user-guide/index.md#getting-support), try to determine the cause of your problem.

### Connection Fails ###

If [your browser](browsers.md) cannot connect to the Web UI even after waiting a few minutes, run this command to display
the last 100 log messages (omit `--tail=100` to see all):

```bash
docker-compose logs --tail=100
```

Before reporting a bug:

- [ ] Check the logs for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*, *no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, *no route to host*, *connection failed*, and *killed*:
    - [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a [memory problem](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap and/or memory; remove or increase usage limits)
    - [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
    - [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions)
    - [ ] Log messages that contain "no route to host" indicate a [problem with the database](mariadb.md) or Docker network configuration (follow our [examples](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/))
- [ ] Make sure you are using the correct protocol (default is `http`), port (default is `2342`), and hostname or IP address
(default is `localhost`)
- [ ] Note that HTTP security headers will prevent the app from loading in a frame (override them)
- [ ] Verify your computer meets the [system requirements](../index.md#system-requirements)
- [ ] Go through the [checklist for fatal server errors](#fatal-server-errors)

Should MariaDB get stuck in a restart loop and PhotoPrism can't connect to it, this indicates a [memory](docker.md#adding-swap),
[filesystem](docker.md#file-permissions), or other [permission issue](docker.md#kernel-security):

```
mariadb: mysqld: ready for connections.
mariadb: mysqld (initiated by: unknown): Normal shutdown
photoprism: dial tcp 172.18.0.2:3306: connect: no route to host
mariadb: mysqld: Shutdown complete
```

To enable [debug mode](../config-options.md), set `PHOTOPRISM_DEBUG` to `true` in the `environment:` section
of the `photoprism` service (or use the `--debug` flag when running the `photoprism` command directly):

```yaml
services:
  photoprism:
    environment:
      PHOTOPRISM_DEBUG: "true"
```

Then restart all services for the changes to take effect. It can be helpful to keep Docker running in the foreground
while debugging so that log messages are displayed directly. To do this, omit the `-d` parameter when restarting:

```bash
docker-compose stop
docker-compose up 
```

!!! note ""
    If you see no errors or no logs at all, you may have started the server on a different host
    and/or port. There could also be an [issue with your browser](browsers.md), browser plugins, firewall settings,
    or other tools you may have installed.

!!! tldr ""
    The default [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) config filename is `docker-compose.yml`. For simplicity, it doesn't need to be specified when running the `docker-compose` command in the same directory. Config files for other apps or instances should be placed in separate folders.

### Docker Doesn't Work ###

↪ [Getting Docker Up and Running](docker.md)

### MariaDB Issues ###

↪ [Troubleshooting MariaDB Problems](mariadb.md)

### MySQL Errors ###

↪ [Official support for MySQL 8 is discontinued](../index.md#databases)

### Bad Performance ###

↪ [Performance Tips](performance.md)

### Fatal Server Errors ###

Fatal errors are often caused by one of the following conditions:

- [ ] Your (virtual) server [disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] You have accidentally [mounted the wrong folders](../docker-compose.md#volumes) (update config and restart)
- [ ] There is disk space left, but a usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (change it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] [Symbolic links](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) were mounted or used within a *storage* folder (replace with actual paths)
- [ ] The [server is low on memory](../index.md#system-requirements) (add memory)
- [ ] You didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap)
- [ ] The server CPU is overheating (improve cooling)
- [ ] The server has an outdated operating system that is not fully compatible (update)
- [ ] The server hardware is defective and [causes random panics](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/discussions/1984) (test on another server)
- [ ] The [database server](mariadb.md) is not running, [incompatible](../index.md#databases), or misconfigured (start, upgrade, or fix it)
- [ ] You've [upgraded the MariaDB server](mariadb.md#version-upgrade) without running `mariadb-upgrade`
- [ ] Files are [stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder](mariadb.md#corrupted-files)
- [ ] There are network problems caused by a bad configuration, firewall, or unstable connection
- [ ] [Kernel security modules](docker.md#kernel-security) such as [AppArmor](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppArmor) and [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux) are blocking permissions
- [ ] Your Raspberry Pi has not been configured according to our [recommendations](../raspberry-pi.md#system-requirements)

We recommend checking your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*,
*no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, *no route to host*, *connection failed*, and *killed*:

- [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a [memory problem](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap and/or memory; remove or increase usage limits)
- [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions) 
- [ ] Log messages that contain "no route to host" indicate a [problem with the database](mariadb.md) or network configuration (follow our [examples](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/))

*Start a full rescan if necessary, for example, if it looks like [thumbnails](index.md#broken-thumbnails) or [pictures are missing](index.md#missing-pictures).*

### App Not Loading ###

If the app doesn't load in your browser when you navigate to the server URL, you can [check the browser console](browsers.md#getting-error-details)
for helpful errors and warnings. Sometimes you just need to wait a moment, for example, if you are using a slow wireless
connection or the server was started only a few seconds ago. In case this does not help:

- [ ] You are using an [incompatible browser](browsers.md) (try another browser)
- [ ] JavaScript is disabled in your browser settings, so you only see the splash screen (enable it)
- [ ] JavaScript was disabled by a browser plugin (disable it or add an exception)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] HTTP security headers prevent the app from loading in a frame (override them)
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] There is a problem with your network connection (test if other sites work)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

### Missing Pictures ###

If you have indexed your library and some images or videos are missing, first [check *Library > Errors* for errors and warnings](logs.md).
In case the application logs don't contain anything helpful:

- [ ] The pictures are in [Review](../../user-guide/organize/review.md) due to low quality or incomplete metadata
- [ ] The [file type](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) is generally unsupported
- [ ] The [file type](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) is generally supported, but a specific feature or codec is not
- [ ] The *originals* have [bad filesystem permissions](docker.md#file-permissions), so they cannot be opened by the indexer
- [ ] The indexer has skipped the files because they are exact duplicates
- [ ] The files are [ignored based on pattern in a `.ppignore` file](../../user-guide/library/originals.md#ignoring-files-and-folders)
- [ ] They [are in *Library > Hidden*](https://demo.photoprism.app/library/hidden) because thumbnails could not be created:
    - [ ] *Convert to JPEG* is [disabled in *Settings > Library*](../../user-guide/settings/library.md) (enable it)
    - [ ] FFmpeg and/or RAW converters are [disabled in *Settings > Advanced*](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md)
    - [ ] The file is broken, e.g. because of [*short Huffman data*](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/10447) (try to fix it)
    - [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
    - [ ] [The *storage* folder is not writable](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
    - [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Multiple files were [stacked](../../user-guide/organize/stacks.md#for-what-reasons-can-files-be-stacked) based on their metadata or file names
- [ ] The [private](../../user-guide/organize/private.md) or [archived](../../user-guide/organize/archive.md) status was restored from a backup
- [ ] The NSFW filter is enabled, so they were marked as [private](../../user-guide/organize/private.md)
- [ ] You are not signed in as admin, so you can't see everything
- [ ] You try to index a shared drive on a remote server, but the server is offline
- [ ] The indexer has crashed because you didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap](docker.md#adding-swap)
- [ ] Somebody has deleted files without telling you
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

*Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need to perform a full rescan once the issue is resolved.*

### Broken Thumbnails ###

If some pictures have broken or missing thumbnails, first [check *Library > Errors* for errors and warnings](logs.md).
In case the application logs don't contain anything helpful:

- [ ] The issue can be resolved by reloading the page or clearing the browser cache
- [ ] You browse [non-JPEG](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) files in *Library > Originals* which have an icon but no preview
- [ ] *Dynamic Previews* are enabled in *Settings > Advanced*, but the server is not powerful enough
- [ ] The sizes in *Settings > Advanced* have been changed so the request can't be fulfilled
- [ ] FFmpeg and/or RAW converters are disabled in *Settings > Advanced* (enable them)
- [ ] *Convert to JPEG* is disabled in *Settings > Library* (enable it)
- [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] Files were deleted manually, for example to free up disk space
- [ ] Files can't be opened, e.g. because the file system permissions have been changed
- [ ] Files are stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder
- [ ] Some thumbnails could not be created because you didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap](docker.md#adding-swap)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] Your proxy, router, or firewall has a request rate limit, so some requests fail
- [ ] There are other network problems caused by a firewall, router, or unstable connection
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

We also recommend checking your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*,
*no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, and *killed*:

- [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a
memory problem
- [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions)

*Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need to perform a full rescan once the issue is resolved.*

### Videos Don't Play ###

If videos do not play and/or you only see a white/black area when you open a video:

- [ ] You are using an [incompatible browser](browsers.md), e.g. without AVC support (try another browser)
- [ ] AVC support or related JavaScript features have been disabled in your browser (check the settings and try another browser)
- [ ] It is a large non-AVC video that needs to be transcoded first (wait or [run `photoprism convert` to pre-transcode videos](../docker-compose.md#command-line-interface))
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] Files are stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder (check if the files are accessible)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] There are other network problems caused by a proxy, firewall, or unstable connection (try a direct connection)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

We recommend that you check your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) and [the browser console](browsers.md#getting-error-details)
for messages related to *HTTP requests*, *permissions*, *security*, *FFmpeg*, *videos*, and *file conversion*.

*[AVC]: MPEG-4 / H.264
*[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
*[VPN]: Virtual Private Network
*[CPU]: Central Processing Unit
*[DNS]: Domain Name System
*[HTTP]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol
*[SSD]: Solid-State Drive
*[RAW]: image format that contains unprocessed sensor data
*[UI]: User Interface
*[URL]: Web Address
*[FFmpeg]: transcodes video files
*[SQLite]: self-contained, serverless SQL database
*[NSFW]: Not Safe For Work
*[swap]: substitute for physical memory
*[host]: Computer, Cloud Server, or VM that runs Docker
*[read-only]: write protected
*[filesystem]: contains your files and folders

Commit message:

Getting Started: Add note on high-resolution panoramic images
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/index.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Checklists

!!! info ""
    You are welcome to ask for help in our [community chat](https://gitter.im/browseyourlife/community).
    [Sponsors](../../funding.md) receive direct [technical support](https://photoprism.app/contact) via email.
    Before [submitting a support request](../../user-guide/index.md#getting-support), try to determine the cause of your problem.

### Connection Fails ###

If [your browser](browsers.md) cannot connect to the Web UI even after waiting a few minutes, run this command to display
the last 100 log messages (omit `--tail=100` to see all):

```bash
docker-compose logs --tail=100
```

Before reporting a bug:

- [ ] Check the logs for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*, *no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, *no route to host*, *connection failed*, and *killed*:
    - [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a [memory problem](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap and/or memory; remove or increase usage limits)
    - [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
    - [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions)
    - [ ] Log messages that contain "no route to host" indicate a [problem with the database](mariadb.md) or Docker network configuration (follow our [examples](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/))
- [ ] Make sure you are using the correct protocol (default is `http`), port (default is `2342`), and hostname or IP address
(default is `localhost`)
- [ ] Note that HTTP security headers will prevent the app from loading in a frame (override them)
- [ ] Verify your computer meets the [system requirements](../index.md#system-requirements)
- [ ] Go through the [checklist for fatal server errors](#fatal-server-errors)

Should MariaDB get stuck in a restart loop and PhotoPrism can't connect to it, this indicates a [memory](docker.md#adding-swap),
[filesystem](docker.md#file-permissions), or other [permission issue](docker.md#kernel-security):

```
mariadb: mysqld: ready for connections.
mariadb: mysqld (initiated by: unknown): Normal shutdown
photoprism: dial tcp 172.18.0.2:3306: connect: no route to host
mariadb: mysqld: Shutdown complete
```

To enable [debug mode](../config-options.md), set `PHOTOPRISM_DEBUG` to `true` in the `environment:` section
of the `photoprism` service (or use the `--debug` flag when running the `photoprism` command directly):

```yaml
services:
  photoprism:
    environment:
      PHOTOPRISM_DEBUG: "true"
```

Then restart all services for the changes to take effect. It can be helpful to keep Docker running in the foreground
while debugging so that log messages are displayed directly. To do this, omit the `-d` parameter when restarting:

```bash
docker-compose stop
docker-compose up 
```

!!! note ""
    If you see no errors or no logs at all, you may have started the server on a different host
    and/or port. There could also be an [issue with your browser](browsers.md), browser plugins, firewall settings,
    or other tools you may have installed.

!!! tldr ""
    The default [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) config filename is `docker-compose.yml`. For simplicity, it doesn't need to be specified when running the `docker-compose` command in the same directory. Config files for other apps or instances should be placed in separate folders.

### Docker Doesn't Work ###

↪ [Getting Docker Up and Running](docker.md)

### MariaDB Issues ###

↪ [Troubleshooting MariaDB Problems](mariadb.md)

### MySQL Errors ###

↪ [Official support for MySQL 8 is discontinued](../index.md#databases)

### Bad Performance ###

↪ [Performance Tips](performance.md)

### Fatal Server Errors ###

Fatal errors are often caused by one of the following conditions:

- [ ] Your (virtual) server [disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] You have accidentally [mounted the wrong folders](../docker-compose.md#volumes) (update config and restart)
- [ ] There is disk space left, but a usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (change it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] [Symbolic links](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) were mounted or used within a *storage* folder (replace with actual paths)
- [ ] The [server is low on memory](../index.md#system-requirements) (add memory)
- [ ] You didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap space](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap)
- [ ] High-resolution panoramic images require [additional memory](performance.md#memory) above the recommended minimum (add more swap or memory)
- [ ] The server CPU is overheating (improve cooling)
- [ ] The server has an outdated operating system that is not fully compatible (update)
- [ ] The server hardware is defective and [causes random panics](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/discussions/1984) (test on another server)
- [ ] The [database server](mariadb.md) is not running, [incompatible](../index.md#databases), or misconfigured (start, upgrade, or fix it)
- [ ] You've [upgraded the MariaDB server](mariadb.md#version-upgrade) without running `mariadb-upgrade`
- [ ] Files are [stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder](mariadb.md#corrupted-files)
- [ ] There are network problems caused by a bad configuration, firewall, or unstable connection
- [ ] [Kernel security modules](docker.md#kernel-security) such as [AppArmor](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppArmor) and [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux) are blocking permissions
- [ ] Your Raspberry Pi has not been configured according to our [recommendations](../raspberry-pi.md#system-requirements)

We recommend checking your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*,
*no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, *no route to host*, *connection failed*, and *killed*:

- [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a [memory problem](docker.md#adding-swap) (add swap and/or memory; remove or increase usage limits)
- [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions) 
- [ ] Log messages that contain "no route to host" indicate a [problem with the database](mariadb.md) or network configuration (follow our [examples](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/))

*Start a full rescan if necessary, for example, if it looks like [thumbnails](index.md#broken-thumbnails) or [pictures are missing](index.md#missing-pictures).*

### App Not Loading ###

If the app doesn't load in your browser when you navigate to the server URL, you can [check the browser console](browsers.md#getting-error-details)
for helpful errors and warnings. Sometimes you just need to wait a moment, for example, if you are using a slow wireless
connection or the server was started only a few seconds ago. In case this does not help:

- [ ] You are using an [incompatible browser](browsers.md) (try another browser)
- [ ] JavaScript is disabled in your browser settings, so you only see the splash screen (enable it)
- [ ] JavaScript was disabled by a browser plugin (disable it or add an exception)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] HTTP security headers prevent the app from loading in a frame (override them)
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] There is a problem with your network connection (test if other sites work)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

### Missing Pictures ###

If you have indexed your library and some images or videos are missing, first [check *Library > Errors* for errors and warnings](logs.md).
In case the application logs don't contain anything helpful:

- [ ] The pictures are in [Review](../../user-guide/organize/review.md) due to low quality or incomplete metadata
- [ ] The [file type](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) is generally unsupported
- [ ] The [file type](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) is generally supported, but a specific feature or codec is not
- [ ] The *originals* have [bad filesystem permissions](docker.md#file-permissions), so they cannot be opened by the indexer
- [ ] The indexer has skipped the files because they are exact duplicates
- [ ] The files are [ignored based on pattern in a `.ppignore` file](../../user-guide/library/originals.md#ignoring-files-and-folders)
- [ ] They [are in *Library > Hidden*](https://demo.photoprism.app/library/hidden) because thumbnails could not be created:
    - [ ] *Convert to JPEG* is [disabled in *Settings > Library*](../../user-guide/settings/library.md) (enable it)
    - [ ] FFmpeg and/or RAW converters are [disabled in *Settings > Advanced*](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md)
    - [ ] The file is broken, e.g. because of [*short Huffman data*](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/10447) (try to fix it)
    - [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
    - [ ] [The *storage* folder is not writable](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
    - [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Multiple files were [stacked](../../user-guide/organize/stacks.md#for-what-reasons-can-files-be-stacked) based on their metadata or file names
- [ ] The [private](../../user-guide/organize/private.md) or [archived](../../user-guide/organize/archive.md) status was restored from a backup
- [ ] The NSFW filter is enabled, so they were marked as [private](../../user-guide/organize/private.md)
- [ ] You are not signed in as admin, so you can't see everything
- [ ] You try to index a shared drive on a remote server, but the server is offline
- [ ] The indexer has crashed because you didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap](docker.md#adding-swap)
- [ ] Somebody has deleted files without telling you
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

*Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need to perform a full rescan once the issue is resolved.*

### Broken Thumbnails ###

If some pictures have broken or missing thumbnails, first [check *Library > Errors* for errors and warnings](logs.md).
In case the application logs don't contain anything helpful:

- [ ] The issue can be resolved by reloading the page or clearing the browser cache
- [ ] You browse [non-JPEG](../faq.md#what-media-file-types-are-supported) files in *Library > Originals* which have an icon but no preview
- [ ] *Dynamic Previews* are enabled in *Settings > Advanced*, but the server is not powerful enough
- [ ] The sizes in *Settings > Advanced* have been changed so the request can't be fulfilled
- [ ] FFmpeg and/or RAW converters are disabled in *Settings > Advanced* (enable them)
- [ ] *Convert to JPEG* is disabled in *Settings > Library* (enable it)
- [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] Files were deleted manually, for example to free up disk space
- [ ] Files can't be opened, e.g. because the file system permissions have been changed
- [ ] Files are stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder
- [ ] Some thumbnails could not be created because you didn't [configure at least 4 GB of swap](docker.md#adding-swap)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] Your proxy, router, or firewall has a request rate limit, so some requests fail
- [ ] There are other network problems caused by a firewall, router, or unstable connection
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

We also recommend checking your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) for messages like *disk full*, *disk quota exceeded*,
*no space left on device*, *read-only file system*, *error creating path*, *wrong permissions*, and *killed*:

- [ ] If a service has been "killed" or otherwise automatically terminated, this points to a
memory problem
- [ ] In case the logs show "disk full", "quota exceeded", or "no space left" errors, either [the disk containing the *storage* folder is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage) or a disk usage limit is configured (remove or increase it)
- [ ] Errors such as "read-only file system", "error creating path", or "wrong permissions" indicate a [filesystem permission problem](docker.md#file-permissions)

*Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need to perform a full rescan once the issue is resolved.*

### Videos Don't Play ###

If videos do not play and/or you only see a white/black area when you open a video:

- [ ] You are using an [incompatible browser](browsers.md), e.g. without AVC support (try another browser)
- [ ] AVC support or related JavaScript features have been disabled in your browser (check the settings and try another browser)
- [ ] It is a large non-AVC video that needs to be transcoded first (wait or [run `photoprism convert` to pre-transcode videos](../docker-compose.md#command-line-interface))
- [ ] An ad blocker or other plugins block requests (disable them or add an exception)
- [ ] [Your (virtual) server disk is full](docker.md#disk-space) (add storage)
- [ ] A disk usage or the [inode limit](https://serverfault.com/questions/104986/what-is-the-maximum-number-of-files-a-file-system-can-contain) has been reached (remove or increase it)
- [ ] The *storage* folder [is not writable or mounted read-only](docker.md#file-permissions) (change [permissions](docker.md#file-permissions))
- [ ] Files are stored on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive or a shared network folder (check if the files are accessible)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [Reverse Proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] There are other network problems caused by a proxy, firewall, or unstable connection (try a direct connection)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, CDN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet

We recommend that you check your [Docker Logs](docker.md#viewing-logs) and [the browser console](browsers.md#getting-error-details)
for messages related to *HTTP requests*, *permissions*, *security*, *FFmpeg*, *videos*, and *file conversion*.

*[AVC]: MPEG-4 / H.264
*[CDN]: Content Delivery Network
*[VPN]: Virtual Private Network
*[CPU]: Central Processing Unit
*[DNS]: Domain Name System
*[HTTP]: Hypertext Transfer Protocol
*[SSD]: Solid-State Drive
*[RAW]: image format that contains unprocessed sensor data
*[UI]: User Interface
*[URL]: Web Address
*[FFmpeg]: transcodes video files
*[SQLite]: self-contained, serverless SQL database
*[NSFW]: Not Safe For Work
*[swap]: substitute for physical memory
*[host]: Computer, Cloud Server, or VM that runs Docker
*[read-only]: write protected
*[filesystem]: contains your files and folders
