docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/windows.md, before:

# Solving Windows-Specific Issues

## NTFS File System

If you experience poor performance when indexing large libraries stored on NTFS:

- [ ] The I/O bandwidth used to update the *Last Access Time* can be a significant percentage of the total I/O bandwidth on NTFS volumes with a large number of files or folders (disable updates).[^1]
- [ ] In folders with many files, file names may start to conflict after NTFS uses all of the 8.3 short file names that are similar to the long names. Repeated conflicts between new and existing short names cause NTFS to regenerate the short file name from 6 to 8 times (disable short file names and reduce the number of files per folder).[^2] [^3]
- [ ] [exFat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ExFAT) can be faster than NTFS, especially on external SSD drives with a lot of small files.
- [ ] Windows 10 allows physical disks formatted with the Linux ext4 file system to be mounted directly in WSL 2, which may be an option for some use cases.[^4]

[^1]: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2003/cc781134(v=ws.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN#last-access-time>
[^2]: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2003/cc781134(v=ws.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN#how-ntfs-generates-short-file-names>
[^3]: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/9600126>
[^4]: <https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-now-lets-you-mount-linux-ext4-filesystems-in-wsl-2/>

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.

Commit message:

Getting Started: Update index.md, faq.md and windows.md

docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/windows.md, after:

# Solving Windows-Specific Issues

## NTFS File System

If you experience poor performance when indexing large libraries stored on NTFS:

- [ ] The I/O bandwidth used to update the *Last Access Time* can be a significant percentage of the total I/O bandwidth on NTFS volumes with a large number of files or folders (disable updates).[^1]
- [ ] In folders with many files, file names may start to conflict after NTFS uses all of the 8.3 short file names that are similar to the long names. Repeated conflicts between new and existing short names cause NTFS to regenerate the short file name from 6 to 8 times (disable short file names and reduce the number of files per folder).[^2] [^3]
- [ ] [exFat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ExFAT) can be faster than NTFS, especially on external SSD drives with a lot of small files.
- [ ] Windows 10 allows physical disks formatted with the Linux ext4 file system to be mounted directly in WSL 2, which may be an option for some use cases.[^4]

## Connecting via WebDAV

If you have [followed the instructions in our docs](../../user-guide/sync/webdav.md#__tabbed_1_2) and still have trouble connecting via WebDAV:

- [ ] You are using the [wrong username or password](index.md#cannot-log-in)
- [ ] You do not have sufficient user rights (try as admin)
- [ ] Your instance is using an invalid HTTPS certificate (check and update)
- [ ] Your browser cannot communicate properly with the server, e.g. because a [reverse proxy](../proxies/nginx.md), VPN, or CDN is configured incorrectly (check its configuration and try without)
- [ ] You are connected to the wrong server, VPN, or a DNS record has not been updated yet
- [ ] You need to change the basic authentication level (see below)
 
To change the basic authentication level in the Windows registry:

1. Open the [Windows Registry Editor](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/how-to-open-registry-editor-in-windows-10-deab38e6-91d6-e0aa-4b7c-8878d9e07b11).
2. Locate the following registry directory: `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WebClient\Parameters`
3. Locate the value `BasicAuthLevel`.
4. The value data box should be set to 2. If the value is not 2, right click it and then select *Modify*.
5. Change the value to 2.

[^1]: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2003/cc781134(v=ws.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN#last-access-time>
[^2]: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2003/cc781134(v=ws.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN#how-ntfs-generates-short-file-names>
[^3]: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/9600126>
[^4]: <https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-now-lets-you-mount-linux-ext4-filesystems-in-wsl-2/>

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.
