docs/developer-guide/tests.md, before:

# Running Unit and Acceptance Tests

!!! example ""
    In any process, obsessing about the wait times will yield greater improvements than practically anything else, for longer than you might think. Automation, simplification, etc. are implementation details of that obsession. — <cite>Dan North</cite>

## Unit Tests ##
### Go ###
To run all unit tests, type `make test` or `go test ./internal/...` in a terminal.

These `make` targets are currently defined for tests:

- `test`: Executes all tests found in a) */internal* with a timeout of 20 min and verbose output and b) *frontend/tests/unit*
- `test-short`: Executes only fast tests found in */internal* with a timeout of 5 min and verbose output
- `test-race`: Same as `test` but with race condition detector (much slower) and higher timeout of 60 min
- `test-codecov`: Same as `test` but creates a coverage log in *coverage.txt* and sends it to [Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/photoprism/photoprism) (don't use it locally)
- `test-coverage`: Same as `test` but creates a *coverage.txt* file as well as a human-readable report in *coverage.html*; timeout is elevated to 30 min

You can run single tests via `go test -run` in a package directory, e.g. */internal/photoprism*:

```
$ go test -run NameOfTest
```

See [docs](https://golang.org/pkg/testing/#hdr-Subtests_and_Sub_benchmarks) for more info.

#### Test Frameworks ####

Go comes with a cool testing framework, it allows you to write test code using the same language, without needing to learn any library or test engine. [Go advanced testing tips & tricks](https://medium.com/@povilasve/go-advanced-tips-tricks-a872503ac859) contains a lot of useful information. We only import [testify/assert](https://github.com/stretchr/testify/tree/master/assert) to save a few lines for common assertions.

Todo: Use a SQL mock driver to test database interactions, for example https://github.com/DATA-DOG/go-sqlmock.

#### Slow Tests ###

Slow tests and benchmarks can be skipped using the `-short` flag:

```go
func TestTimeConsuming(t *testing.T) {
    if testing.Short() {
        t.Skip("skipping test in short mode.")
    }
    ...
}
```

To execute:

```
go test -short
```
### Javascript ###
To run all javascript unit tests, type `make test-js` in a terminal.


In case you want to run a single test add .only to the test you want to run e.g.:

```javascript
 it.only("should get album id",  () => {
        const values = {
            ID: 5, AlbumName: "Christmas 2019", 
            AlbumSlug: "christmas-2019", AlbumUUID: 66
        };
        const album = new Album(values);
        const result = album.getId();
        assert.equal(result, "66");
    });
```


Test coverage output is saved to *frontend/coverage/html*

#### Test Frameworks ####
To test javascript code we use [mocha](https://mochajs.org/) in combination with [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/4.0/intro/installation.html), [chai](https://www.chaijs.com/), [sinon](https://sinonjs.org/) and the [karma-istanbul-coverage-reporter](https://github.com/mattlewis92/karma-coverage-istanbul-reporter).

## Acceptance Tests ##

### Download test and config files
Download the following directory and unzip it within your storage directory

``wget https://dl.photoprism.app/qa/acceptance.tar.gz``

### Run tests within the docker container
You can run the tests from within the photoprism container in firefox or chromium.
  
* ```make acceptance-run-chromium```: This executes all tests in headless chromium
  
* ```make acceptance-run-firefox ```: This executes all tests in headless firefox

### Run tests locally
Locally you can run the tests in all supported browsers you have installed.

To run tests locally you need to install testcafe on your machine.
```
npm install -g testcafe
``` 

Start the test-instance (from within the docker container)
```
make acceptance-restart
```

Then you can execute tests with
```
testcafe  firefox,chrome,safari,opera -S \
  -s frontend/tests/acceptance/screenshots frontend/tests/acceptance/
```

You can stop the test-instance using
```
make stop
```

To run tests on remote or mobile devices use
```
testcafe  remote -S \
  -s frontend/tests/acceptance/screenshots frontend/tests/acceptance/
```



### Test Frameworks

Our goal was to implement UI acceptance tests using JavaScript, so that frontend developers are able to run and write them without learning Go.<br>

To make a final decision, we compared  [TestCafe](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/), [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) and [Nightwatch.js](https://nightwatchjs.org/).
We agreed on using TestCafe as tests were the most stable and pretty fast (because no long timeouts are needed).

|Feature | TestCafe | Cypress | Nightwatch.js|
|------- | -------- | ------- |------------- |
|Supported Browsers Local | Chrome,<br> Firefox,<br> Opera,<br> Safari,<br> Internet Explorer,<br> Microsoft Edge,<br> Google Chrome Canary,<br> Chromium  |Chrome,<br> Chromium,<br> Chrome Canary,<br> Electron | Geckodriver,<br> Chromedriver,<br> Microsoft Webdriver,<br> Safaridriver|
|Supported Browsers Headless | Chrome,<br> Firefox | Electron | Problems running headless |
|Continuous Integration Support | yes | yes | yes|
|Setup | easy via npm | easy via npm | easy via npm |
|Usability | +++ |+++ | ++ |
|Speed (3 tests) |2 min (headless chrome and firefox)<br> 1 min (only chrome headless)<br> 1 min (chrome headed)|5 min (headless electron)<br> 2,5 min (chrome headed)|7 min (chrome headed)<br> headless not working |
|Stability | nice | unstable --> waiting times needed | unstable --> waiting times needed|
|Documentation | +++ | ++ | ++|
|Notes |easy to find elements |easy to find elements |additional library needed to find selectors by text|

Other test libraries and frameworks we currently don't use:
 
- https://codecept.io/
- https://funcunit.com/
- https://www.browserstack.com/
- http://nightwatchjs.org/ (used by [Mozilla's Coral Project](https://github.com/coralproject/talk))
- https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/04/headless-chrome

Commit message:

Developer Guide: Update tests.md
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/developer-guide/tests.md, after:

# Running Unit and Acceptance Tests

!!! example ""
    In any process, obsessing about the wait times will yield greater improvements than practically anything else, for longer than you might think. Automation, simplification, etc. are implementation details of that obsession. — <cite>Dan North</cite>

## Unit Tests ##
### Go ###
To run all unit tests, type `make test` or `go test ./internal/...` in a terminal.

These `make` targets are currently defined for tests:

- `test`: Executes all tests found in a) */internal* with a timeout of 20 min and verbose output and b) *frontend/tests/unit*
- `test-short`: Executes only fast tests found in */internal* with a timeout of 5 min and verbose output
- `test-race`: Same as `test` but with race condition detector (much slower) and higher timeout of 60 min
- `test-codecov`: Same as `test` but creates a coverage log in *coverage.txt* and sends it to [Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/photoprism/photoprism) (don't use it locally)
- `test-coverage`: Same as `test` but creates a *coverage.txt* file as well as a human-readable report in *coverage.html*; timeout is elevated to 30 min

You can run single tests via `go test -run` in a package directory, e.g. */internal/photoprism*:

```
$ go test -run NameOfTest
```

See [docs](https://golang.org/pkg/testing/#hdr-Subtests_and_Sub_benchmarks) for more info.

#### Test Frameworks ####

Go comes with a cool testing framework, it allows you to write test code using the same language, without needing to learn any library or test engine. [Go advanced testing tips & tricks](https://medium.com/@povilasve/go-advanced-tips-tricks-a872503ac859) contains a lot of useful information. We only import [testify/assert](https://github.com/stretchr/testify/tree/master/assert) to save a few lines for common assertions.

Todo: Use a SQL mock driver to test database interactions, for example https://github.com/DATA-DOG/go-sqlmock.

#### Slow Tests ###

Slow tests and benchmarks can be skipped using the `-short` flag:

```go
func TestTimeConsuming(t *testing.T) {
    if testing.Short() {
        t.Skip("skipping test in short mode.")
    }
    ...
}
```

To execute:

```
go test -short
```
### Javascript ###
To run all javascript unit tests, type `make test-js` in a terminal.


In case you want to run a single test add .only to the test you want to run e.g.:

```javascript
 it.only("should get album id",  () => {
        const values = {
            ID: 5, AlbumName: "Christmas 2019", 
            AlbumSlug: "christmas-2019", AlbumUUID: 66
        };
        const album = new Album(values);
        const result = album.getId();
        assert.equal(result, "66");
    });
```


Test coverage output is saved to *frontend/coverage/html*

#### Test Frameworks ####
To test javascript code we use [mocha](https://mochajs.org/) in combination with [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/4.0/intro/installation.html), [chai](https://www.chaijs.com/), [sinon](https://sinonjs.org/) and the [karma-istanbul-coverage-reporter](https://github.com/mattlewis92/karma-coverage-istanbul-reporter).

## Acceptance Tests ##

Before you proceed, use `wget` to download [acceptance.tar.gz](https://dl.photoprism.app/qa/acceptance.tar.gz)
to the storage folder and extract it there:

```bash
cd storage
wget https://dl.photoprism.app/qa/acceptance.tar.gz
tar -xzf acceptance.tar.gz
```

### Running Tests Inside the Docker Container

In the development container environment, you can run the tests in Firefox and Chromium:

  
* ```make acceptance-run-chromium```: This executes all tests in headless chromium
  
* ```make acceptance-run-firefox ```: This executes all tests in headless firefox

### Running Tests Locally

Locally, you can run the tests in all supported browsers that you have installed.

To run tests locally you need to install testcafe on your machine.
```
npm install -g testcafe
``` 

Start the test-instance (from within the docker container)
```
make acceptance-restart
```

Then you can execute tests with
```
testcafe  firefox,chrome,safari,opera -S \
  -s frontend/tests/acceptance/screenshots frontend/tests/acceptance/
```

You can stop the test-instance using
```
make stop
```

To run tests on remote or mobile devices use
```
testcafe  remote -S \
  -s frontend/tests/acceptance/screenshots frontend/tests/acceptance/
```

### Test Frameworks

Our goal was to implement UI acceptance tests using JavaScript, so that frontend developers are able to run and write them without learning Go.<br>

To make a final decision, we compared  [TestCafe](https://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/), [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) and [Nightwatch.js](https://nightwatchjs.org/).
We agreed on using TestCafe as tests were the most stable and pretty fast (because no long timeouts are needed).

|Feature | TestCafe | Cypress | Nightwatch.js|
|------- | -------- | ------- |------------- |
|Supported Browsers Local | Chrome,<br> Firefox,<br> Opera,<br> Safari,<br> Internet Explorer,<br> Microsoft Edge,<br> Google Chrome Canary,<br> Chromium  |Chrome,<br> Chromium,<br> Chrome Canary,<br> Electron | Geckodriver,<br> Chromedriver,<br> Microsoft Webdriver,<br> Safaridriver|
|Supported Browsers Headless | Chrome,<br> Firefox | Electron | Problems running headless |
|Continuous Integration Support | yes | yes | yes|
|Setup | easy via npm | easy via npm | easy via npm |
|Usability | +++ |+++ | ++ |
|Speed (3 tests) |2 min (headless chrome and firefox)<br> 1 min (only chrome headless)<br> 1 min (chrome headed)|5 min (headless electron)<br> 2,5 min (chrome headed)|7 min (chrome headed)<br> headless not working |
|Stability | nice | unstable --> waiting times needed | unstable --> waiting times needed|
|Documentation | +++ | ++ | ++|
|Notes |easy to find elements |easy to find elements |additional library needed to find selectors by text|

Other test libraries and frameworks we currently don't use:
 
- https://codecept.io/
- https://funcunit.com/
- https://www.browserstack.com/
- http://nightwatchjs.org/ (used by [Mozilla's Coral Project](https://github.com/coralproject/talk))
- https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/04/headless-chrome
