docs/getting-started/advanced/backups.md, before:

# Advanced Backup Guide

**A backup of PhotoPrism should include, at a minimum, the files in [your *originals* folder](../docker-compose.md#photoprismoriginals) and a copy of the index database. We also recommend backing up [the *storage* folder](../docker-compose.md#photoprismstorage) so that you don't need to recreate the thumbnails and your backup includes all config files.**

You can create an index SQL backup by running this command in a terminal:

```bash
photoprism backup -i [filename]
```

Or the following for [docker-compose](../docker-compose.md):

```bash
docker compose exec -T photoprism photoprism backup -i - > photoprism-db.sql
```

As seen above, you can use `-` as filename to write the backup to stdout.
This is done to ensure the backup resides outside of the container environment.

If you leave the filename empty, the backup will be written to the default backup folder configured via [`PHOTOPRISM_BACKUP_PATH`](../config-options.md#storage-folders).

If you want, you can also export your cache and thumbnails, but it can also be re-generated after restore.
It will save you from re-generating thumbnails from scratch however.

Helpful information can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/discussions/772) as well.

## SQLite Backups

Creating SQL dumps from SQLite is currently not supported by the `photoprism backup` command, since SQLite files are located in the *storage* folder and thus should automatically be part of any backup.

However, if you prefer to have a dump, you can [run this command](../docker-compose.md#command-line-interface) to create one:

```bash
docker compose exec -T photoprism sqlite3 /photoprism/storage/index.db .dump > photoprism-db.sql
```

If you use pure `docker`, you can run the following (or replace `docker` with `podman` on Red Hat-based Linux distributions):

```bash
docker exec -t PhotoPrism sqlite3 /photoprism/storage/index.db .dump > photoprism-db.sql
```

## Restore Backups

See our user guide to learn how to [restore backups](../../user-guide/backups/restore.md).

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-file-edit-outline: to send a pull request with your changes.

Commit message:

User Guide: Update Backup Guide

docs/getting-started/advanced/backups.md, after:

# Advanced Backup Guide

At a minimum, a backup of PhotoPrism should include the files in [your *originals* folder](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#photoprismoriginals) and a copy of the index database. We also recommend backing up [the *storage* folder](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#photoprismstorage) so that you don't need to recreate any thumbnail or sidecar files, and your backup includes the complete configuration.

!!! tldr ""
    The easiest way to create a full backup is to first run the backup command to generate a database dump as described in our [**Backup Guide**](../../user-guide/backups/index.md). Then back up your *originals* and *storage* folders using any standard file backup utility.

## Backup Command

You can create an index SQL backup by running this command in a terminal:

```bash
photoprism backup -i [filename]
```

Or the following if you are using [docker-compose](../docker-compose.md):

```bash
docker compose exec -T photoprism photoprism backup -i - > photoprism-db.sql
```

As seen above, you can use `-` as filename to write the backup to stdout.
This is done to ensure the backup resides outside of the container environment.

If you leave the filename empty, the backup will be written to the default backup folder configured via [`PHOTOPRISM_BACKUP_PATH`](../config-options.md#storage-folders).

If you want, you can also export your cache and thumbnails, but it can also be re-generated after restore.
It will save you from re-generating thumbnails from scratch however.

Helpful information can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/discussions/772) as well.

## Restore Command

See our regular [Backup Guide](../../user-guide/backups/restore.md) to learn how to [restore backups](../../user-guide/backups/restore.md).

## SQLite Backups

!!! tldr ""
    If you are using a [current version](../../release-notes.md), you can create SQL dumps of SQLite with the `photoprism backup` command. Since the binary SQLite database files are located in the *storage* folder, they should also be automatically included in any backup.

In order to create a dump directly with SQLite, you can alternatively run [this command](../docker-compose.md#command-line-interface):

```bash
docker compose exec -T photoprism sqlite3 /photoprism/storage/index.db .dump > photoprism-db.sql
```

With pure `docker`, you can run the following (or replace `docker` with `podman` on Red Hat-based Linux distributions):

```bash
docker exec -t PhotoPrism sqlite3 /photoprism/storage/index.db .dump > photoprism-db.sql
```

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-file-edit-outline: to send a pull request with your changes.
