docs/getting-started/advanced/docker-volumes.md, before:

# Docker Volume Mounts

When using Docker, all application services run in isolated containers, so you must explicitly [mount the host folders](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#volumes) you want to use. Be aware that PhotoPrism and MariaDB cannot see folders that have not been mounted. This is an important security feature.

## Originals Folder

The *originals* folder contains your original photo and video files.

`~/Pictures` will be mounted by default, where `~` is a shortcut for your home directory:

```yaml
volumes:
  # "/host/folder:/photoprism/folder"  # example
  - "~/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
```

You can mount [any folder accessible from the host](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#short-syntax-3), including [network shares](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage). Additional directories can also be mounted as sub folders of `/photoprism/originals` (depending on [overlay file system support](../troubleshooting/docker.md#overlay-volumes)):

```yaml
volumes:
  - "/home/username/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
  - "/example/friends:/photoprism/originals/friends"
  - "/mnt/photos:/photoprism/originals/media"
```

On Windows, prefix the host path with the drive letter and use `/` instead of `\` as separator:

```yaml
volumes:
  - "D:/Example/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
```

!!! tldr ""
    If *read-only mode* is enabled, all features that require write permission to the *originals* folder are disabled, e.g. [WebDAV](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/), uploading and deleting files. Set `PHOTOPRISM_READONLY` to `"true"` in `docker-compose.yml` for this. You can [mount a folder with the `:ro` flag](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#short-syntax-3) to make Docker block write operations as well.

## Storage Folder

SQLite, config, cache, thumbnail and sidecar files are saved in the *storage* folder:

- a *storage* folder mount must always be configured in your `docker-compose.yml` file so that you do not lose these files after a restart or upgrade
- never configure the *storage* folder to be inside the *originals* folder unless the name starts with a `.` to indicate that it is hidden
- we recommend placing the *storage* folder on a [local SSD drive](../troubleshooting/performance.md#storage) for best performance
- mounting [symbolic links](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) or using them inside the *storage* folder is currently not supported

!!! tldr ""
    Should you later want to move your instance to another host, the easiest and most time-saving way is to copy the entire *storage* folder along with your originals and database.

## Import Folder

You can optionally mount an *import* folder from which files can be transferred to the *originals* folder in a structured way that avoids duplicates:

- [imported files](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/import/) receive a canonical filename and will be organized by year and month
- never configure the *import* folder to be inside the *originals* folder, as this will cause a loop by importing already indexed files

!!! tldr ""
    You can safely skip this. Adding files via [Web Upload](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/upload/) and [WebDAV](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/) remains possible, unless [read-only mode](../config-options.md) is enabled or the [features have been disabled](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/settings/general/).

## MariaDB Database

Our example includes a pre-configured [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) database server that stores it files in the `database` folder by default. If you remove it and provide no other database server credentials, SQLite database files will be created in the *storage* folder.

!!! tldr ""
    Never [store database files](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/mariadb/#corrupted-files) on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive, SD card, or shared network folder. These may also have [unexpected file size limitations](https://thegeekpage.com/fix-the-file-size-exceeds-the-limit-allowed-and-cannot-be-saved/), which is especially problematic for databases that do not split data into smaller files. We strongly recommend [using SSD storage for databases only](../troubleshooting/performance.md#storage).

## Network Storage

Shared folders that have already been mounted on your host under a drive letter or path can be used with Docker containers like [any other directory](../docker-compose.md#volumes).
In addition, certain types of network storage like NFS (Unix/Linux) and CIFS (Windows/Mac) can also be *mounted directly* with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#driver_opts).

For more information, see the [Network Storage](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage) section of our [Docker Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting/docker.md).

[Configure Network Storage ›](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage)

Commit message:

Getting Started: Update faq.md and database docs

docs/getting-started/advanced/docker-volumes.md, after:

# Docker Volume Mounts

When using Docker, all application services run in isolated containers, so you must explicitly [mount the host folders](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#volumes) you want to use. Be aware that PhotoPrism and MariaDB cannot see folders that have not been mounted. This is an important security feature.

## Originals Folder

The *originals* folder contains your original photo and video files.

`~/Pictures` will be mounted by default, where `~` is a shortcut for your home directory:

```yaml
volumes:
  # "/host/folder:/photoprism/folder"  # example
  - "~/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
```

You can mount [any folder accessible from the host](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#short-syntax-3), including [network shares](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage). Additional directories can also be mounted as sub folders of `/photoprism/originals` (depending on [overlay file system support](../troubleshooting/docker.md#overlay-volumes)):

```yaml
volumes:
  - "/home/username/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
  - "/example/friends:/photoprism/originals/friends"
  - "/mnt/photos:/photoprism/originals/media"
```

On Windows, prefix the host path with the drive letter and use `/` instead of `\` as separator:

```yaml
volumes:
  - "D:/Example/Pictures:/photoprism/originals"
```

!!! tldr ""
    If *read-only mode* is enabled, all features that require write permission to the *originals* folder are disabled, e.g. [WebDAV](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/), uploading and deleting files. Set `PHOTOPRISM_READONLY` to `"true"` in `docker-compose.yml` for this. You can [mount a folder with the `:ro` flag](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#short-syntax-3) to make Docker block write operations as well.

## Storage Folder

SQLite, config, cache, thumbnail and sidecar files are saved in the *storage* folder:

- a *storage* folder mount must always be configured in your `docker-compose.yml` file so that you do not lose these files after a restart or upgrade
- never configure the *storage* folder to be inside the *originals* folder unless the name starts with a `.` to indicate that it is hidden
- we recommend placing the *storage* folder on a [local SSD drive](../troubleshooting/performance.md#storage) for best performance
- mounting [symbolic links](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) or using them inside the *storage* folder is currently not supported

!!! tldr ""
    Should you later want to move your instance to another host, the easiest and most time-saving way is to copy the entire *storage* folder along with your originals and database.

## Import Folder

You can optionally mount an *import* folder from which files can be transferred to the *originals* folder in a structured way that avoids duplicates:

- [imported files](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/import/) receive a canonical filename and will be organized by year and month
- never configure the *import* folder to be inside the *originals* folder, as this will cause a loop by importing already indexed files

!!! tldr ""
    You can safely skip this. Adding files via [Web Upload](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/upload/) and [WebDAV](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/) remains possible, unless [read-only mode](../config-options.md) is enabled or the [features have been disabled](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/settings/general/).

## MariaDB Database

Our example includes a pre-configured [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) database server that stores it files in the `database` folder by default. If you remove it and provide no other database server credentials, SQLite database files will be created in the *storage* folder.

Please do not use a *named* or *anonymous* [Docker volume](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/07-volumes/#example) for storing MariaDB database files and check the mount path of the volume if you use a custom database image (it may not always be `/var/lib/mysql`), as both can lead to data loss when the database container is recreated, e.g. after an update of the Docker image.

!!! tldr ""
    Never [store database files](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/mariadb/#corrupted-files) on an unreliable device such as a USB flash drive, SD card, or shared network folder. These may also have [unexpected file size limitations](https://thegeekpage.com/fix-the-file-size-exceeds-the-limit-allowed-and-cannot-be-saved/), which is especially problematic for databases that do not split data into smaller files. We strongly recommend [using SSD storage for databases only](../troubleshooting/performance.md#storage).

## Network Storage

Shared folders that have already been mounted on your host under a drive letter or path can be used with Docker containers like [any other directory](../docker-compose.md#volumes).
In addition, certain types of network storage like NFS (Unix/Linux) and CIFS (Windows/Mac) can also be *mounted directly* with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#driver_opts).

For more information, see the [Network Storage](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage) section of our [Docker Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting/docker.md).

[Configure Network Storage ›](../troubleshooting/docker.md#network-storage)
