docs/getting-started/advanced/openid-connect.md, before:

# Single Sign-On via OpenID Connect

[OpenID Connect (OIDC)](../../developer-guide/api/oidc.md) allows users to log in and optionally register through an external identity provider instead of manually entering a username and password:

![oidc-login](../../developer-guide/api/img/oidc-login.jpg){ class="shadow" }

## Config Options

| Environment              | CLI Flag        | Default            | Description                                                                                         |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_URI      | --oidc-uri      |                    | issuer `URI` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect, e.g. https://accounts.google.com                |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_CLIENT   | --oidc-client   |                    | client `ID` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect                                                   |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_SECRET   | --oidc-secret   |                    | client `SECRET` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect                                               |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_PROVIDER | --oidc-provider |                    | custom identity provider `NAME`, e.g. Google                                                        |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_ICON     | --oidc-icon     |                    | custom identity provider icon `URI`                                                                 |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REDIRECT | --oidc-redirect |                    | automatically redirect unauthenticated users to the configured identity provider                    |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REGISTER | --oidc-register |                    | allow new users to create an account when they sign in with OpenID Connect                          |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_USERNAME | --oidc-username | preferred_username | preferred username `CLAIM` for new OpenID Connect users (preferred_username, name, nickname, email) |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_WEBDAV   | --oidc-webdav   |                    | allow new OpenID Connect users to use WebDAV when they have a role that allows it                   |
| PHOTOPRISM_DISABLE_OIDC  | --disable-oidc  |                    | disable single sign-on via OpenID Connect, even if an identity provider has been configured         |

!!! note ""
    Your PhotoPrism instance and the [OpenID Connect Identity Provider (IdP)](#identity-providers) must be accessible **via HTTPS** and have valid TLS certificates configured for it. Please also make sure that the hostname in the [Redirect URL](#redirect-url) configured on the IdP matches the [Site URL](../../getting-started/config-options.md#site-information) used by PhotoPrism. Single sign-on via OIDC can otherwise not be enabled.

## Identity Providers

To authenticate users via OIDC, you can either set up and use a self-hosted identity provider such as [ZITADEL](https://zitadel.com/docs/self-hosting/deploy/compose) or [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/), or configure a public identity provider service such as those operated by [Google](https://developers.google.com/identity/openid-connect/openid-connect), [Microsoft](https://entra.microsoft.com/), [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app), or [Amazon](https://developer.amazon.com/apps-and-games/login-with-amazon).

Single sign-on can be configured automatically if the identity provider offers a standardized `/.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint for [service discovery](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-known-oauth-authorization-server), for example:

- <https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration>

### Redirect URL

The Redirect URL that must be [specified when registering a new client](../../developer-guide/api/img/redirect-url-example.jpg) with an [Identity Provider](#identity-providers) is as follows, where `{hostname}` must be replaced by the hostname in the [Site URL](../../getting-started/config-options.md#site-information), e.g. configured via `PHOTOPRISM_SITE_URL`:

```
https://{hostname}/api/v1/oidc/redirect
```

Both URLs must begin with `https://` to use HTTPS, as otherwise single sign-on via OIDC cannot be enabled.

## Preferred Username

When a new user signs in with OpenID Connect[^1], their preferred username may already be registered. In this case, a random 6-digit number is appended to resolve the conflict.

The config option `PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_USERNAME` allows you to change the [preferred username](#config-options) for new accounts from `preferred_username` to `name`, `nickname`, or verified `email`. Names are changed to lowercase handles so that, for example, "Jens Mander" becomes "jens.mander".

## Existing Accounts

[Super admins](../../user-guide/users/roles.md) can manually connect existing user accounts[^2] under [*Settings > Users*](../../user-guide/users/index.md) by changing the authentication to *OIDC* and then setting the *Subject ID* to match the account identifier from the configured [Identity Provider](#identity-providers):

![Edit Dialog](../../developer-guide/api/img/oidc-subject.jpg){ class="shadow" }

The *Edit Account* dialog may additionally contain a text field for the *Issuer* URL. It does not need to be entered manually as it is set automatically after the first login.

Alternatively, you can [run the following command](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#command-options) in [a terminal](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#opening-a-terminal) to allow authentication via *OIDC* and set a *Subject ID* to connect existing accounts:

```bash
photoprism users mod --auth=oidc --auth-id=[sub] [username]
```

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#command-options)

### Passwords

Changing the authentication of an account to *OIDC* does not remove a previously set password, so that it can still be used to log in (optionally also in combination with [2FA](../../user-guide/users/2fa.md)).

If a [local password](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#changing-a-password) has been set for an account, you can remove it by running the following command [in a terminal](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#removing-a-password):

```bash
photoprism passwd --rm [username]
```

[Super admins](../../user-guide/users/roles.md#admin) can alternatively set the account password to a long random value through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#changing-passwords) or [CLI](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#changing-a-password) to effectively prevent local authentication.

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#removing-a-password)

### Deleting Accounts

Deleted accounts remain linked to the *Subject ID*, so logging in via *OIDC* is no longer possible and no new account can be registered for the same *Subject ID* either.

If you wish to change the connected user account or create a new account instead, you must therefore [change the authentication](../../user-guide/users/index.md#editing-user-details) of the old account e.g. to *None* before [deleting it](../../user-guide/users/index.md#deleting-a-user):

```bash
photoprism users mod --auth=none [username]
```

To restore a previously deleted account, admins can [create a new account](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account) with the same *username* through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#adding-a-new-user) or the [`photoprism users add`](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account) command.

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account)

[^1]: `PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REGISTER` must be set to `"true"` to allow new users to create an account
[^2]: Admins cannot change the authentication of their own user account through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#editing-user-details) so that they do not accidentally lock themselves out e.g. by setting it to *None*.

Commit message:

OIDC: Update Getting Started guide and FAQs #4438

docs/getting-started/advanced/openid-connect.md, after:

# Single Sign-On via OpenID Connect

[OpenID Connect (OIDC)](../../developer-guide/api/oidc.md) allows users to log in and optionally register through an external identity provider instead of manually entering a username and password:

![oidc-login](../../developer-guide/api/img/oidc-login.jpg){ class="shadow" }

## Config Options

| Environment              | CLI Flag        | Default            | Description                                                                                         |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_URI      | --oidc-uri      |                    | issuer `URI` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect, e.g. https://accounts.google.com                |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_CLIENT   | --oidc-client   |                    | client `ID` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect                                                   |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_SECRET   | --oidc-secret   |                    | client `SECRET` for single sign-on via OpenID Connect                                               |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_PROVIDER | --oidc-provider |                    | custom identity provider `NAME`, e.g. Google                                                        |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_ICON     | --oidc-icon     |                    | custom identity provider icon `URI`                                                                 |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REDIRECT | --oidc-redirect |                    | automatically redirect unauthenticated users to the configured identity provider                    |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REGISTER | --oidc-register |                    | allow new users to create an account when they sign in with OpenID Connect                          |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_USERNAME | --oidc-username | preferred_username | preferred username `CLAIM` for new OpenID Connect users (preferred_username, name, nickname, email) |
| PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_WEBDAV   | --oidc-webdav   |                    | allow new OpenID Connect users to use WebDAV when they have a role that allows it                   |
| PHOTOPRISM_DISABLE_OIDC  | --disable-oidc  |                    | disable single sign-on via OpenID Connect, even if an identity provider has been configured         |

!!! note ""
    Your PhotoPrism instance and the [OpenID Connect Identity Provider (IdP)](#identity-providers) must be accessible **via HTTPS** and have valid TLS certificates configured for it. Please also make sure that the hostname in the [Redirect URL](#redirect-url) configured on the IdP matches the [Site URL](../../getting-started/config-options.md#site-information) used by PhotoPrism. Single sign-on via OIDC can otherwise not be enabled.

## Identity Providers

To authenticate users via OIDC, you can either set up and use a self-hosted identity provider such as [ZITADEL](https://zitadel.com/docs/self-hosting/deploy/compose) or [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/), or configure a public identity provider service such as those operated by [Google](https://developers.google.com/identity/openid-connect/openid-connect), [Microsoft](https://entra.microsoft.com/), [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app), or [Amazon](https://developer.amazon.com/apps-and-games/login-with-amazon).

Single sign-on can be configured automatically if the identity provider offers a standardized `/.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint for [service discovery](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-known-oauth-authorization-server), for example:

- <https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration>

### Redirect URL

The Redirect URL that must be [specified when registering a new client](../../developer-guide/api/img/redirect-url-example.jpg) with an [Identity Provider](#identity-providers) is as follows, where `{hostname}` must be replaced by the hostname in the [Site URL](../../getting-started/config-options.md#site-information), e.g. configured via `PHOTOPRISM_SITE_URL`:

```
https://{hostname}/api/v1/oidc/redirect
```

Both URLs must begin with `https://` to use HTTPS, as otherwise single sign-on via OIDC cannot be enabled.

## Preferred Username

When a new user signs in with OpenID Connect[^1], their preferred username may already be registered. In this case, a random 6-digit number is appended to resolve the conflict.

The config option `PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_USERNAME` allows you to change the [preferred username](#config-options) for new accounts from `preferred_username` to `name`, `nickname`, or verified `email`. Names are changed to lowercase handles so that, for example, "Jens Mander" becomes "jens.mander".

## Existing Accounts

[Super admins](../../user-guide/users/roles.md) can manually connect existing user accounts[^2] under [*Settings > Users*](../../user-guide/users/index.md) by changing the authentication to *OIDC* and then setting the *Subject ID* to match the account identifier from the configured [Identity Provider](#identity-providers):

![Edit Dialog](../../developer-guide/api/img/oidc-subject.jpg){ class="shadow" }

The *Edit Account* dialog may additionally contain a text field for the *Issuer* URL. It does not need to be entered manually as it is set automatically after the first login.

Alternatively, you can [run the following command](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#command-options) in [a terminal](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#opening-a-terminal) to allow authentication via *OIDC* and set a *Subject ID* to connect existing accounts:

```bash
photoprism users mod --auth=oidc --auth-id=[sub] [username]
```

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#command-options)

### Passwords

Changing the authentication of an account to *OIDC* does not remove a previously set password, so that it can still be used to log in (optionally also in combination with [2FA](../../user-guide/users/2fa.md)).

If a [local password](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#changing-a-password) has been set for an account, you can remove it by running the following command [in a terminal](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#removing-a-password):

```bash
photoprism passwd --rm [username]
```

[Super admins](../../user-guide/users/roles.md#admin) can alternatively set the account password to a long random value through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#changing-passwords) or [CLI](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#changing-a-password) to effectively prevent local authentication.

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#removing-a-password)

### Deleting Accounts

Deleted accounts remain linked to the *Subject ID*, so logging in via *OIDC* is no longer possible and no new account can be registered for the same *Subject ID* either.

If you wish to change the connected user account or create a new account instead, you must therefore [change the authentication](../../user-guide/users/index.md#editing-user-details) of the old account e.g. to *None* before [deleting it](../../user-guide/users/index.md#deleting-a-user):

```bash
photoprism users mod --auth=none [username]
```

To restore a previously deleted account, admins can follow the same steps as for [creating a new account](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account) with the same *username* through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#adding-a-new-user) or the [`photoprism users add`](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account) command. You will then be asked if you want to restore the account.

[Learn more ›](../../user-guide/users/cli.md#creating-a-new-account)

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Is it possible to set a default role for new OIDC users?

For security reasons, our [Personal Editions](https://www.photoprism.app/editions#compare) currently default to the [Guest](../../user-guide/users/roles.md#guest) role, which admins can then upgrade after checking the eligibility of newly registered accounts. If you run our [Pro Edition](https://www.photoprism.app/teams#compare) in a trusted corporate network with appropriate security measures - including for the OIDC provider - [it can be configured](https://www.photoprism.app/pro/kb/config-options) to give new accounts a higher authorization level by default.

Please note in this context that using an external [Identity Provider](#identity-providers) for [authorization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authorization), and not just for [authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authentication), can easily lead to security issues such as the following, for which we do not want to get a CVE assigned nor do we want to be responsible for any private pictures of our users getting leaked as a result:

- https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/07/29/ransomware-operators-exploit-esxi-hypervisor-vulnerability-for-mass-encryption/
- https://support.broadcom.com/web/ecx/support-content-notification/-/external/content/SecurityAdvisories/0/24505

[^1]: `PHOTOPRISM_OIDC_REGISTER` must be set to `"true"` to allow new users to create an account
[^2]: Admins cannot change the authentication of their own user account through the [Admin Web UI](../../user-guide/users/index.md#editing-user-details) so that they do not accidentally lock themselves out e.g. by setting it to *None*.
