docs/getting-started/advanced/transcoding.md, before:

# Video Transcoding

*Note: This is contributed content. Click the edit link to perform changes and send a pull request.*

The encoder to be used by FFmpeg when transcoding videos can be configured within 
your `docker-compose.yml` config file.  

Experimental hardware accelerated transcoding on a Raspberry Pi (and compatible devices)
may be enabled using the `h264_v4l2m2m` encoder:

```yaml
PHOTOPRISM_FFMPEG_ENCODER: "h264_v4l2m2m"
```

It defaults to `libx264` if no value is set or transcoding with `h264_v4l2m2m` fails.

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/HWAccelIntro)
for a full list of encoders and their implementation status.

!!! info 
    Some server configurations, specifically Raspberry Pi's, may run into memory 
    allocation issues when using hardware acceleration. 
    Monitor your server logs carefully and increase available GPU and/or CMA memory 
    allocations if necessary. 
    

Additional advanced configuration options:

```yaml
PHOTOPRISM_FFMPEG_BUFFERS: "64" # FFmpeg capture buffers (default: 32)
```

!!! warning
    Hardware accelerated transcoding within Photoprism is currently experimental.
    It may not work on all server configurations.
    Some users report unexpected hangs in the FFmpeg process when attempting to 
    transcoding large video files.

Commit message:

Add devices information
Also minor tweaks to readability

docs/getting-started/advanced/transcoding.md, after:

# Video Transcoding

*Note: This is contributed content. Click the edit link to perform changes and send a pull request.*

The encoder used by FFmpeg can be configured within your `docker-compose.yml` config file.  

Experimental hardware accelerated transcoding on a Raspberry Pi (and compatible devices)
may be enabled using the `h264_v4l2m2m` encoder:

```yaml
PHOTOPRISM_FFMPEG_ENCODER: "h264_v4l2m2m"
```

It defaults to `libx264` if no value is set or transcoding with `h264_v4l2m2m` fails.

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/HWAccelIntro)
for a full list of encoders and their implementation status.

!!! info 
    Some server configurations, specifically Raspberry Pi's, may run into memory 
    allocation issues when using hardware acceleration. 
    Monitor your server logs carefully and increase available GPU and/or CMA memory 
    allocations if necessary. 

The Docker container will also need access to one or more video devices.
For the `h264_v4l2m2m` encoder on a Raspberry Pi, also add:
```yaml
devices:
 - "/dev/video11:/dev/video11"
```

Additional advanced configuration options:

```yaml
PHOTOPRISM_FFMPEG_BUFFERS: "64" # FFmpeg capture buffers (default: 32)
```

!!! warning
    Hardware accelerated transcoding within Photoprism is currently experimental.
    It may not work on all server configurations.
    Some users report unexpected hangs in the FFmpeg process when attempting to 
    transcode large video files.
