docs/getting-started/config-files/defaults.md, before:

# `defaults.yml`

Default values, including the *config* path to use, may optionally be specified in a `defaults.yml` file located in `/etc/photoprism`. Write permissions are not required, since all changes will be stored in the `options.yml` file.

With the variable `PHOTOPRISM_DEFAULTS_YAML` or the flag `--defaults-yaml`, you can also specify a custom defaults file to be loaded when PhotoPrism starts.
overriding Defaults

### Format

When [editing YAML files](../../developer-guide/technologies/yaml.md), it is important that related values start at the same indentation level and that spaces are used, since tabs are not allowed. You can use any text editor for this.

### Example

Since you only need to specify the values for which you want to set a default, a `defaults.yml` file does not need to contain all possible options and could look like this, for example:

```yaml
Debug: false
ReadOnly: true
JpegQuality: 85
```

### Overriding Defaults

The [default values](index.md#authentication) can be overridden by values in an [`options.yml`](index.md) file, command flags, and environment variables. As with all global [config options](../config-options.md), changes require a restart to take effect.

## Config Options

↪ see [`options.yml`](index.md#config-options)

Commit message:

Getting Started: Improve YAML config files documentation
see https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues/3861

docs/getting-started/config-files/defaults.md, after:

# `defaults.yml`

Global config defaults, including the config and storage paths to use, can optionally be [set with a `defaults.yml` file](https://dl.photoprism.app/pkg/linux/defaults.yml) in the `/etc/photoprism` directory (requires root privileges). A custom filename for loading the defaults can be specified with the `PHOTOPRISM_DEFAULTS_YAML` environment variable or the `--defaults-yaml` command flag.

Keep in mind that any changes to the config options, either [through the UI](../../user-guide/settings/advanced.md), [config files](index.md), or by [setting environment variables](../config-options.md), always require a restart to take effect.

!!! tldr ""
    A `defaults.yml` file affects all users and should only contain options for which you want to set a global default.

### File Format ###

You can use any text editor to create or modify [YAML](../../developer-guide/technologies/yaml.md) config files. When specifying values, make sure that [their data type matches the documentation](index.md#config-options), e.g. *bool* values must be either `true` or `false` (without quotes, unlike [in `docker-compose.yml` files](../../developer-guide/technologies/yaml.md#true-false)) and *int* values must be whole numbers, as shown in [this example](https://dl.photoprism.app/pkg/linux/defaults.yml):

```yaml
ConfigPath: "~/.config/photoprism"
StoragePath: "~/.photoprism"
OriginalsPath: "~/Pictures"
ImportPath: "/media"
AdminUser: "admin"
AdminPassword: "insecure"
AuthMode: "password"
DatabaseDriver: "sqlite"
JpegQuality: 85
DetectNSFW: false
UploadNSFW: true
```

To avoid ambiguity, it is recommended to enclose text strings in double quotes `"`, especially if they contain spaces, a colon, or other special characters.

!!! note ""
    File and directory paths may be specified using `~` as a placeholder for the home directory of the current user, e.g. `~/Pictures`. Relative paths can also be specified via `./pathname`.
    If no explicit [*originals*](../docker-compose.md#photoprismoriginals), [*import*](../docker-compose.md#photoprismimport) and/or *assets* path has been configured, a list of [default directory paths](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/pkg/fs/dirs.go) will be searched and the first existing directory will be used for the respective path.

### Supported Options ###

↪ see [`options.yml`](index.md#config-options)

### Overriding Defaults ###

Defaults can be overridden by values in [an `options.yml` file](index.md) as well as by [command flags and environment variables](../config-options.md).

To override values with an `options.yml` file, you can specify its storage path (without the file name) by adding the `ConfigPath` option to your `defaults.yml`. Alternatively, you can use the command flag `--config-path` or the environment variable `PHOTOPRISM_CONFIG_PATH`. By default, it is a subdirectory of the [*storage* folder](../docker-compose.md#photoprismstorage).

The values in an `options.yml` file are not global by default and can be used to customize individual instances.
In both files you can set any of the [supported options](index.md#config-options).
