docs/getting-started/ports/freebsd.md, before:

# Running PhotoPrism On FreeBSD

For FreeBSD / FreeNAS users, an unofficial [PhotoPrism port](https://github.com/huo-ju/photoprism-freebsd-port) 
is available.

The port will compile and install libtensorflow 1.15.2 and build `photoprism` from source on FreeBSD.

!!! info ""
    You are welcome to ask for help in our [community chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat).
    [Sponsors](https://photoprism.app/membership) receive direct [technical support](https://photoprism.app/contact) via email.
    Before submitting a support request, try to [determine the cause of your problem](../troubleshooting/index.md).

!!! quote ""
    Help improve these docs! You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.

**1. Clone or download the port:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/huo-ju/photoprism-freebsd-port
```

**2. Build TensorFlow and PhotoPrism from source, then install:**

```bash
cd photoprism-freebsd-port
make config
make && make install
```

When running the make config command, a CPU feature options dialog will be presented, and the default option is NONE.

**3. Add entries to rc.conf:**

```bash
photoprism_enable="YES"
photoprism_assetspath="/var/photoprism/assets"
photoprism_storagepath="/var/photoprism/storage"
```

You can add more command line parameters into photoprism_flags="" in the rc.conf

`photoprism config` shows all config parameters. 

**4. Start the service:**

```bash
service photoprism start
```

Done!

Commit message:

Getting Started: Add disclaimer for third-party apps

docs/getting-started/ports/freebsd.md, after:

# Running PhotoPrism On FreeBSD

For FreeBSD / FreeNAS users, an unofficial [PhotoPrism port](https://github.com/huo-ju/photoprism-freebsd-port) 
is available.

The port will compile and install libtensorflow 1.15.2 and build `photoprism` from source on FreeBSD.

!!! info "Getting Support"
    Should you experience problems with the installation, we recommend that you ask the FreeBSD community for advice, as we cannot provide support for third-party software.

!!! quote ""
    Help improve these docs! You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.

**1. Clone or download the port:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/huo-ju/photoprism-freebsd-port
```

**2. Build TensorFlow and PhotoPrism from source, then install:**

```bash
cd photoprism-freebsd-port
make config
make && make install
```

When running the make config command, a CPU feature options dialog will be presented, and the default option is NONE.

**3. Add entries to rc.conf:**

```bash
photoprism_enable="YES"
photoprism_assetspath="/var/photoprism/assets"
photoprism_storagepath="/var/photoprism/storage"
```

You can add more command line parameters into photoprism_flags="" in the rc.conf

`photoprism config` shows all config parameters. 

**4. Start the service:**

```bash
service photoprism start
```

Done!
