docs/developer-guide/native-apps/index.md, before:

# Native Mobile Apps for iOS and Android

As an addition to our platform-independent [Progressive Web App (PWA)](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/pwa/), the following native apps are being maintained by other companies and individual developers:

| Name                                              | Platform     | Developer                                               | License                                                          | Download                                                                                                             |
|---------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Gallery for PhotoPrism](#gallery-for-photoprism) | Android      | [Oleg Koretsky](https://github.com/Radiokot)            | [GPL 3.0](https://github.com/Radiokot/photoprism-android-client) | [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-app), [F-Droid](https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-fdroid)        |
| [Photo Map](#photo-map)                           | Android      | [Denny Weinberg](https://levionsoftware.com/contact/)   | Closed Source                                                    | [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/photomap)                                                                  |
| [PhotoSync](#photosync)                           | iOS, Android | [touchbyte GmbH](https://www.photosync-app.com/contact) | Closed Source                                                    | [App Store](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-ios), [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-android) |
| [Photoflare](#photoflare)                         | iOS          | Chris Wunsch                                            | n/a                                                              | [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/MMA6iQDl)                                                             |
| [Prismatic](#prismatic)                           | iOS          | [Chris Li](https://github.com/automactic)               | n/a                                                              | [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/vzNQjaym)                                                             |

## Gallery for PhotoPrism

With this [Android app](https://github.com/Radiokot/photoprism-android-client), you can easily browse the pictures in your library and share them with other apps. The app offers a timeline view, authentication, bookmarks, and many other useful features. It can also be installed on Android TV, so you can browse your library with a remote control.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-app"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-fdroid"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_fdroid.svg" alt="Get it on F-Droid" width="135"></a>
</div>

## Photo Map

[Photo Map](https://levionsoftware.com/) is a perfect Android app for travelers: It displays all your pictures on an interactive world map, so you never lose track of when and where you took them. With the latest update, videos are now played directly in the app. Also, the number of photos that can be displayed is no longer limited.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photomap"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
</div>

## PhotoSync

[PhotoSync](https://www.photosync-app.com/) lets you transfer photos and videos directly from your mobile phone. It backs up your pictures securely in the background or you can manually select files to upload into specific folders.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-android"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-ios"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_appstore.svg" alt="Apple App Store" width="135"></a>
</div>

## Photoflare

Photoflare is an iOS app that is currently being developed by Chris Wunsch. It is at an early stage and already offers some basic functionality that can be tested via [Apple TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/MMA6iQDl).

[Learn more ›](https://www.reddit.com/r/photoprism/comments/1czskxn/photoprism_ios_app/)

## Prismatic

Prismatic is an iOS app developed by [Chris Li](https://github.com/automactic) that allows you to display your pictures on the iPhone home screen. You can test this and other features by installing it via [Apple TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/vzNQjaym).

[Give feedback ›](https://github.com/automactic/Prismatic-feedback/discussions)

Commit message:

Developer Guide: Add Prismatic screenshot to native apps overview

docs/developer-guide/native-apps/index.md, after:

# Native Mobile Apps for iOS and Android

As an addition to our platform-independent [Progressive Web App (PWA)](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/pwa/), the following native apps are being maintained by other companies and individual developers:

| Name                                              | Platform     | Developer                                               | License                                                          | Download                                                                                                             |
|---------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Gallery for PhotoPrism](#gallery-for-photoprism) | Android      | [Oleg Koretsky](https://github.com/Radiokot)            | [GPL 3.0](https://github.com/Radiokot/photoprism-android-client) | [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-app), [F-Droid](https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-fdroid)        |
| [Photo Map](#photo-map)                           | Android      | [Denny Weinberg](https://levionsoftware.com/contact/)   | Closed Source                                                    | [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/photomap)                                                                  |
| [PhotoSync](#photosync)                           | iOS, Android | [touchbyte GmbH](https://www.photosync-app.com/contact) | Closed Source                                                    | [App Store](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-ios), [Google Play](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-android) |
| [Photoflare](#photoflare)                         | iOS          | Chris Wunsch                                            | n/a                                                              | [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/MMA6iQDl)                                                             |
| [Prismatic](#prismatic)                           | iOS          | [Chris Li](https://github.com/automactic)               | n/a                                                              | [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/vzNQjaym)                                                             |

## Gallery for PhotoPrism

With this [Android app](https://github.com/Radiokot/photoprism-android-client), you can easily browse the pictures in your library and share them with other apps. The app offers a timeline view, authentication, bookmarks, and many other useful features. It can also be installed on Android TV, so you can browse your library with a remote control.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-app"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/gallery-fdroid"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_fdroid.svg" alt="Get it on F-Droid" width="135"></a>
</div>

## Photo Map

[Photo Map](https://levionsoftware.com/) is a perfect Android app for travelers: It displays all your pictures on an interactive world map, so you never lose track of when and where you took them. With the latest update, videos are now played directly in the app. Also, the number of photos that can be displayed is no longer limited.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photomap"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
</div>

## PhotoSync

[PhotoSync](https://www.photosync-app.com/) lets you transfer photos and videos directly from your mobile phone. It backs up your pictures securely in the background or you can manually select files to upload into specific folders.

<div class="appstore-buttons">
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-android"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_playstore.svg" alt="Google Play Store" width="135"></a>
    <a href="https://link.photoprism.app/photosync-ios"><img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge_appstore.svg" alt="Apple App Store" width="135"></a>
</div>

## Photoflare

Photoflare is an iOS app that is currently being developed by Chris Wunsch. It is at an early stage and already offers some basic functionality that can be tested via [Apple TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/MMA6iQDl).

[Learn more ›](https://www.reddit.com/r/photoprism/comments/1czskxn/photoprism_ios_app/)

## Prismatic ![Prismatic Screenshot](img/prismatic-screenshot.jpg){ class="right xxs shadow" }

Prismatic is an iOS app developed by [Chris Li](https://github.com/automactic) that allows you to display pictures from your library in customizable widgets on your phone's home screen.

You can test this and other features by installing it via [Apple TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/vzNQjaym).

[Give feedback ›](https://github.com/automactic/Prismatic-feedback/discussions)
