docs/user-guide/sync/mobile-devices.md, before:

# Syncing with Mobile Devices #

To sync photos and videos on your phone with PhotoPrism, you can use any app that supports WebDAV.

!!! tldr ""
    You can disable WebDAV in the [advanced settings](../settings/advanced.md). Since it requires write permissions and authentication, the built-in WebDAV server is automatically disabled when running in [read-only](../../getting-started/config-options.md#feature-flags) or [public mode](../../getting-started/config-options.md#authentication).

## PhotoSync ##

We recommend [PhotoSync](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync) which is available for Android and iOS.

### Set PhotoPrism or WebDAV as Target ###

1. Open PhotoSync and click :material-cog-outline:
2. Click *Configure*
3. Select PhotoPrism as target

    ![Screenshot](img/photosync-1.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}
    ![Screenshot](img/photosync-2.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

4. Enter your settings

    !!! info ""
        *Server:* Your server url, e.g. "example.com".
        
        *Port:* Your port. If you are using HTTPS the port is 443.

        *Login:* Your username, e.g. "admin".
        
        *Password:* Your admin password.

        *Directory:* /import/ or /originals/ depending on your preferred [ingestion method](../library/index.md).
        
        *Use SSL:* Should be enabled.

        [PikaPods](../../getting-started/cloud/pikapods.md) users can find more information [here](https://docs.pikapods.com/apps/photoprism/#sync-from-mobile-apps). 

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-3.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

6. Click *Done*
7. You may adapt transfer details to match your preferences

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-4.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}
      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-5.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

### Set Up Automatic Sync ###

1. Open PhotoSync and click :material-cog-outline:
2. Click *Autotransfer*

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-1.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

3. Click *Add new trigger* and choose one or more trigger

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-6.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

4. Choose PhotoPrism as target
5. Click *Done*

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-7.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

Because PhotoSync uses WebDAV to send files, PhotoPrism automatically starts importing/indexing when it receives new files.

## Other Apps ##

As long as you run PhotoPrism on a device with Windows file sharing (on Linux, for example, via [Samba](https://www.samba.org/)), you can use this free open-source Android app:

[SMBSync2 - Github](https://github.com/Sentaroh/SMBSync2/releases) | [SMBSync2 - Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sentaroh.android.SMBSync2)

Commit message:

User Guide: Add EasySync to the list of compatible mobile apps #181

docs/user-guide/sync/mobile-devices.md, after:

# Syncing with Mobile Devices #

To sync photos and videos on your phone with PhotoPrism, you can use any app that supports WebDAV.

!!! tldr ""
    You can disable WebDAV in the [advanced settings](../settings/advanced.md). Since it requires write permissions and authentication, the built-in WebDAV server is automatically disabled when running in [read-only](../../getting-started/config-options.md#feature-flags) or [public mode](../../getting-started/config-options.md#authentication).

## PhotoSync ##

We recommend [PhotoSync](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync) which is available for Android and iOS.

### Set PhotoPrism or WebDAV as Target ###

1. Open PhotoSync and click :material-cog-outline:
2. Click *Configure*
3. Select PhotoPrism as target

    ![Screenshot](img/photosync-1.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}
    ![Screenshot](img/photosync-2.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

4. Enter your settings

    !!! info ""
        *Server:* Your server url, e.g. "example.com".
        
        *Port:* Your port. If you are using HTTPS the port is 443.

        *Login:* Your username, e.g. "admin".
        
        *Password:* Your admin password.

        *Directory:* /import/ or /originals/ depending on your preferred [ingestion method](../library/index.md).
        
        *Use SSL:* Should be enabled.

        [PikaPods](../../getting-started/cloud/pikapods.md) users can find more information [here](https://docs.pikapods.com/apps/photoprism/#sync-from-mobile-apps). 

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-3.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

6. Click *Done*
7. You may adapt transfer details to match your preferences

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-4.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}
      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-5.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

### Set Up Automatic Sync ###

1. Open PhotoSync and click :material-cog-outline:
2. Click *Autotransfer*

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-1.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

3. Click *Add new trigger* and choose one or more trigger

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-6.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

4. Choose PhotoPrism as target
5. Click *Done*

      ![Screenshot](img/photosync-7.jpg){: style="width:35%" class="shadow"}

Because PhotoSync uses WebDAV to send files, PhotoPrism automatically starts importing/indexing when it receives new files.

## Other Apps ##

As an alternative to [PhotoSync](#photosync), you can also use one of the following apps to synchronize your pictures with PhotoPrism, either [directly via WebDAV](webdav.md#server-url) or by sharing the [*originals* folder](../backups/folders.md#originals) as a network drive through your operating system:

| Name                                             | Platform | Synchronization                             | License                                                       | Download                                                                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [EasySync](https://github.com/phpbg/easysync)    | Android  | [Directly via WebDAV](webdav.md#server-url) | [MIT](https://github.com/phpbg/easysync/blob/main/LICENSE)    | [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.phpbg.easysync&pcampaignid=pcampaignidMKT-Other-global-all-co-prtnr-py-PartBadge-Mar2515-1) |
| [SMBSync2](https://github.com/Sentaroh/SMBSync2) | Android  | SMB network drive                           | [MIT](https://github.com/Sentaroh/SMBSync2/blob/2.55/LICENSE) | [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sentaroh.android.SMBSync2)                                                                  |
