docs/getting-started/updates.md, before:

# Getting Updates

!!! example ""
    **This open-source project is made possible [thanks to our sponsors](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/SPONSORS.md).**
    If you enjoy using PhotoPrism, please consider backing us on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photoprism)
    or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/photoprism).
    Your continued support helps us fund operating costs, provide services like satellite maps,
    and develop new features. Thank you very much! 💜

### Docker Compose ###

Open a terminal on your server, and run the following commands to pull the latest container image and restart PhotoPrism:

```
docker-compose pull photoprism
docker-compose stop photoprism
docker-compose up -d photoprism
```

Pulling a new version can take several minutes, depending on your internet connection.

Advanced users may put this into a `Makefile` so that they only need to type a single command.

See [Setup Using Docker Compose](docker-compose.md) for a full command reference.


!!! important "New Release"
    Our [latest release](../release-notes.md) comes as a single [multi-arch image](https://hub.docker.com/r/photoprism/photoprism)
    for AMD64, ARM64, and ARMv7. That means you don't need to pull from different Docker repositories anymore.
    We recommend updating your existing `docker-compose.yml` config based on [our examples](https://dl.photoprism.org/docker/).

!!! info "Preview Builds"
    Update your `docker-compose.yml` to use `photoprism/photoprism:preview` instead of 
    `photoprism/photoprism:latest` for testing our latest development preview.

### Facial Recognition ###

Existing users may index faces in originals without performing a complete rescan:

```
docker-compose exec photoprism photoprism faces index
```

For a fresh start e.g. after upgrading from a development preview, remove
known people and faces before re-indexing:

```
docker-compose exec photoprism photoprism faces reset -f
```

### Watchtower ###

Adding [Watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower) as a service to your `docker-compose.yml` will
automatically keep images up-to-date:

```yml
services:
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"
```

!!! caution
    Automatic updates may interrupt indexing and import operations.
    Only enable Watchtower if you are comfortable with this.

### Pure Docker ###

Open a terminal on your server, and run the following command to pull the latest container image:

```
docker pull photoprism/photoprism:latest
```

See [Running PhotoPrism with Docker](docker.md) for a full command reference.

!!! info "Preview Builds"
    Use `photoprism/photoprism:preview` instead of `photoprism/photoprism:latest` for testing 
    our latest development preview.

Commit message:

Update release-notes.md and updates.md
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/getting-started/updates.md, after:

# Getting Updates

!!! note ""
    The [stable version](../release-notes.md) and [development preview](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/tree/preview) 
    now come as a single [multi-arch image](https://hub.docker.com/r/photoprism/photoprism) for **AMD64, ARM64, and ARMv7**. 
    That means you don't need to pull from different Docker repositories anymore. We recommend updating your existing 
    `docker-compose.yml` config based on [our examples](https://dl.photoprism.org/docker/).

!!! example ""
    **This open-source project is made possible [thanks to our sponsors](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/SPONSORS.md).**
    If you enjoy using PhotoPrism, please consider backing us on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photoprism)
    or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/photoprism).
    Your continued support helps us fund operating costs, provide services like satellite maps,
    and develop new features. Thank you very much! 💜

### Docker Compose ###

Open a terminal on your server, and run the following commands to pull the latest container image and restart PhotoPrism:

```
docker-compose pull photoprism
docker-compose stop photoprism
docker-compose up -d photoprism
```

Pulling a new version can take several minutes, depending on your internet connection.

Advanced users may put this into a `Makefile` so that they only need to type a single command.

See [Setup Using Docker Compose](docker-compose.md) for a full command reference.

!!! info ""
    You can test our latest features and improvements by changing the image from `photoprism/photoprism:latest`
    to `photoprism/photoprism:preview` in your [`docker-compose.yml`](https://dl.photoprism.org/docker/).
    Then pull the most recent image and restart your instance.

### Facial Recognition ###

Existing users may index faces in originals without performing a complete rescan:

```
docker-compose exec photoprism photoprism faces index
```

For a fresh start e.g. after upgrading from a development preview, remove
known people and faces before re-indexing:

```
docker-compose exec photoprism photoprism faces reset -f
```

### Watchtower ###

Adding [Watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower) as a service to your `docker-compose.yml` will
automatically keep images up-to-date:

```yml
services:
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"
```

!!! caution
    Automatic updates may interrupt indexing and import operations.
    Only enable Watchtower if you are comfortable with this.

### Pure Docker ###

Open a terminal on your server, and run the following command to pull the latest container image:

```
docker pull photoprism/photoprism:latest
```

See [Running PhotoPrism with Docker](docker.md) for a full command reference.

!!! info ""
    You can test our latest features and improvements by using `photoprism/photoprism:preview` 
    instead of `photoprism/photoprism:latest`.
