docs/user-guide/organize/stacks.md, before:

# Stacks #

## Grouped Files ##

In case you have "Grouped Sequentials" enabled in [*Settings*](../settings/ui.md) you might have photos that consist of more than one JPEG file.
Grouped files are displayed in *Stacks*.

![Screenshot](img/stacks-1.png)

!!! info
    Files are grouped in two cases:
    
    1. Filenames are related: 'IMG_1234 (2)' or 'IMG_1234 copy 2' are assumed to belong to the same photo.
    2. Photos that have been taken at the same location AND in the same second.

### Browse through related files ###

1. Click on *sequence*

    ![Screenshot](img/sequential1.png)
    
2. Use arrows to see all photos of the sequence

    ![Screenshot](img/sequential3.png) ![Screenshot](img/sequential4.png)
   

### Change primary file ###
The JPEG file marked as *primary* is used in our views. It is listed first in the files tab.

To change the primary file:

1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the file you want to set as primary
        
4. Click *primary*

      ![Screenshot](img/group-3.png) 

### Ungroup files ###
1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the JPEG file that is not marked as primary
        
4. Click *ungroup*

      ![Screenshot](img/group-3.png)

Now, both files appear in our views.

![Screenshot](img/group-4.png)

### Permanently delete not primary files ###
1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the JPEG file that is not marked as primary
        
4. Click *delete*

5. Confirm

      ![Screenshot](img/group-5.png)

Commit message:

Docs: User guide update stacks and settings

docs/user-guide/organize/stacks.md, after:

# Stacks #

## Grouped Files ##

In case you have "Stacks" configured in [*Settings*](../settings/ui.md) you might have photos that consist of more than one JPEG file.
Grouped files are displayed in *Stacks*.

![Screenshot](img/stacks-1.png)

!!! info
    Files can be grouped for the following reasons:
    
    1. Filenames are related: 'IMG_1234 (2)' or 'IMG_1234 copy 2' are assumed to belong to the same photo.
    2. Photos have been taken at the same location AND in the same second.
    3. Files have the same unique image or instance identifier.
    
    You can configure this in [*Settings*](../settings/ui.md).
    


### Browse through related files ###

1. Click on *sequence*

    ![Screenshot](img/sequential1.png)
    
2. Use arrows to see all photos of the sequence

    ![Screenshot](img/sequential3.png) ![Screenshot](img/sequential4.png)
   

### Change primary file ###
The JPEG file marked as *primary* is used in our views. It is listed first in the files tab.

To change the primary file:

1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the file you want to set as primary
        
4. Click *primary*

      ![Screenshot](img/group-3.png) 

### Ungroup files ###
1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the JPEG file that is not marked as primary
        
4. Click *ungroup*

      ![Screenshot](img/group-3.png)

Now, both files appear in our views.

![Screenshot](img/group-4.png)

### Permanently delete not primary files ###
1. Open the photos [*edit dialogue*](edit.md)

2. Open *Files* tab

3. Click :material-chevron-down: of the JPEG file that is not marked as primary
        
4. Click *delete*

5. Confirm

      ![Screenshot](img/group-5.png)
