docs/user-guide/organize/video.md, before:

# Browsing and Playing Videos

Navigate to *Videos* to browse all your videos. To play a video, click :material-play:.

Please note that not all [video and audio formats](https://caniuse.com/?search=video%20format) can be [played with every browser](../../getting-started/troubleshooting/browsers.md). For example, [AAC](https://caniuse.com/aac "Advanced Audio Coding") - the default audio codec for [MPEG-4 AVC / H.264](https://caniuse.com/avc "Advanced Video Coding") - is supported natively in Chrome, Safari, and Edge, while it is only optionally supported by the OS in Firefox and Opera.

![Screenshot](img/video-light.jpg){ class="shadow" }

## Live Photos ##

Short videos up to 3 seconds are categorized and displayed as *Live Photos*, regardless of your phone's make and model.
You can recognize this by the :material-adjust: icon that appears in the upper left corner.

Move the mouse cursor over the thumbnail to play the video without changing the view.
You can limit a search to *Live Photos* by using the `type:live` filter or the keyword `live`.

![Screenshot](img/live-photo-light.jpg){ class="shadow" }

## Transcoding ##

PhotoPrism may use [*ffmpeg*](https://www.ffmpeg.org/documentation.html) to transcode
common video formats to [MPEG-4 AVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MPEG-4).

Videos in MPEG-4 AVC format can be played natively by virtually all modern browsers.

OGV, VP8, VP9, AV1, WebM and HEVC videos will be streamed directly in case they are supported by your browser and if they do not exceed the configured [bitrate limit](../../getting-started/config-options.md#file-converters).
Otherwise those formats will be transcoded as well.

When needed videos are transcoded on demand. This can cause unacceptable delays when large video files
are played for the first time.

In that case, you may [run the following command in a terminal](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#command-line-interface)
to pre-transcode all video originals if needed:

```
docker compose exec photoprism photoprism convert
```

!!! note ""
    Make sure that there is enough disk space available on your server before transcoding all video files, as this may
    require a significant amount of extra storage.

!!! tldr ""
    HEVC/H.265 video files can have a `.mp4` file extension too, which is often associated with AVC only. This is because
    MP4 is a *container* format, meaning that the actual video content may be compressed with H.264, H.265, or something
    else. The file extension doesn't really tell you anything other than that it's probably a video file.

*[HEVC]: High Efficiency Video Coding / H.265

Commit message:

Videos: Improve video transcoding documentation
see https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues/2918

docs/user-guide/organize/video.md, after:

# Browsing and Playing Videos

Navigate to *Videos* to browse all your videos. To play a video, click :material-play:.

Please note that not all [video and audio formats](https://caniuse.com/?search=video%20format) can be [played with every browser](../../getting-started/troubleshooting/browsers.md). For example, [AAC](https://caniuse.com/aac "Advanced Audio Coding") - the default audio codec for [MPEG-4 AVC / H.264](https://caniuse.com/avc "Advanced Video Coding") - is supported natively in Chrome, Safari, and Edge, while it is only optionally supported by the OS in Firefox and Opera.

![Screenshot](img/video-light.jpg){ class="shadow" }

!!! tldr ""
    In case [FFmpeg is disabled](../settings/advanced.md#disable-ffmpeg) or not installed, videos cannot be indexed because still images cannot be created.
    You should also have [Exiftool enabled](../../getting-started/config-options.md#feature-flags) to extract metadata such as duration, resolution, and codec.

## Live Photos ##

Short videos up to 3 seconds are categorized and displayed as *Live Photos*, regardless of your phone's make and model.
You can recognize this by the :material-adjust: icon that appears in the upper left corner.

Move the mouse cursor over the thumbnail to play the video without changing the view.
You can limit a search to *Live Photos* by using the `type:live` filter or the keyword `live`.

![Screenshot](img/live-photo-light.jpg){ class="shadow" }

## Transcoding ##

For maximum browser compatibility, PhotoPrism can transcode video codecs and containers [supported by FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/documentation.html) to [MPEG-4 AVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MPEG-4), as well as extract still images for thumbnail creation:

- if [FFmpeg is disabled](../settings/advanced.md#disable-ffmpeg) or not installed, indexing and importing videos is not possible because still images cannot be created
- if [Exiftool is disabled](../../getting-started/config-options.md#feature-flags) or not installed, indexing and importing videos is only partially possible because the video metadata cannot be extracted and thus the duration, resolution, and codec are unknown
- [MPEG-4 AVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MPEG-4) doesn't require transcoding as it can be played natively by most modern browsers, see https://caniuse.com/mpeg4
- OGV, VP8, VP9, AV1, WebM, and HEVC videos can be streamed directly if they are supported by your browser and do not exceed the [configured bitrate limit](../../getting-started/config-options.md#file-converters)
- other formats must always be transcoded

**If necessary, videos are transcoded on demand. This can cause unacceptable delays when large video files are played for the first time.**

In this case, you can [run the following command in a terminal](../../getting-started/docker-compose.md#command-line-interface) to pre-transcode all video files as needed:

```
docker compose exec photoprism photoprism convert
```

Our setup guide for advanced users explains how to [configure hardware video transcoding](../../getting-started/advanced/transcoding.md).

!!! note ""
    Make sure that there is enough disk space available on your server before transcoding all video files, as this may
    require a significant amount of extra storage.

!!! tldr ""
    HEVC/H.265 video files can have a `.mp4` file extension too, which is often associated with AVC only. This is because
    MP4 is a *container* format, meaning that the actual video content may be compressed with H.264, H.265, or something
    else. The file extension doesn't really tell you anything other than that it's probably a video file.

*[HEVC]: High Efficiency Video Coding / H.265
