docs/user-guide/index.md, before:

# User Guide #

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted community edition can be found
in [Getting Started](../getting-started/index.md). All you need is a Web browser and 
[Docker](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community) to run the server.
It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows. PhotoPrism also runs on [PikaPods](../getting-started/cloud/pikapods.md), [DigitalOcean](../getting-started/cloud/digitalocean.md),
[Raspberry Pi](../getting-started/raspberry-pi.md), [FreeBSD](../getting-started/ports/freebsd.md), and many
[NAS devices](../getting-started/nas/synology.md).

![Progressive Web App](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/ui/iphone-index-360px.png){ align=right }

Once the [initial setup](../getting-started/index.md) is complete, a [tutorial will guide you](../getting-started/first-steps.md) through the first steps to ensure that your library is indexed according to your individual preferences.

## Getting Support ##

If you need help installing our software at home, you can [join us on Reddit](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit), ask in our [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat), or post your question in [GitHub Discussions](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions). Common problems can be quickly diagnosed and solved using the [Troubleshooting Checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in [Getting Started](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/).

We'll do our best to answer all your questions. In return, we ask you to [back us](https://photoprism.app/membership) on [Patreon](https://link.photoprism.app/patreon) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsors).
Think of "free software" as in "free speech," not as in "free beer". Thank you!

In exchange for their continued support, [sponsors](https://photoprism.app/membership) are also welcome to request direct technical [support via email](mailto:sponsors@photoprism.app). Please bear with us if we are unable to get back to you immediately due to the high volume of emails and contact requests we receive.

!!! info ""
    **We kindly ask you not to report bugs via *GitHub Issues* unless you are certain to have found a fully reproducible and previously unreported issue that must be fixed directly in the app.**
    [Contact us](https://photoprism.app/contact) or [a community member](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions)
    if you need help, it could be a local configuration problem, or a misunderstanding in how the software works.

Commit message:

User Guide: Improve onboarding
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/user-guide/index.md, after:

# User Guide #

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted community edition can be found
in [Getting Started](../getting-started/index.md). All you need is a Web browser and 
[Docker](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community) to run the server.
It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows. PhotoPrism also runs on [PikaPods](../getting-started/cloud/pikapods.md), [DigitalOcean](../getting-started/cloud/digitalocean.md),
[Raspberry Pi](../getting-started/raspberry-pi.md), [FreeBSD](../getting-started/ports/freebsd.md), and many
[NAS devices](../getting-started/nas/synology.md).

![Progressive Web App](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/ui/iphone-index-360px.png){ align=right }

Once the [initial setup](../getting-started/index.md) is complete, our [First Steps 👣](first-steps.md) tutorial guides you through the user interface and settings to ensure your library is indexed according to your individual preferences.

## Getting Support ##

If you need help installing our software at home, you can [join us on Reddit](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit), ask in our [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat), or post your question in [GitHub Discussions](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions). Common problems can be quickly diagnosed and solved using the [Troubleshooting Checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in [Getting Started](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/).

We'll do our best to answer all your questions. In return, we ask you to [back us](https://photoprism.app/membership) on [Patreon](https://link.photoprism.app/patreon) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsors).
Think of "free software" as in "free speech," not as in "free beer". Thank you!

In exchange for their continued support, [sponsors](https://photoprism.app/membership) are also welcome to request direct technical [support via email](mailto:sponsors@photoprism.app). Please bear with us if we are unable to get back to you immediately due to the high volume of emails and contact requests we receive.

!!! info ""
    **We kindly ask you not to report bugs via *GitHub Issues* unless you are certain to have found a fully reproducible and previously unreported issue that must be fixed directly in the app.**
    [Contact us](https://photoprism.app/contact) or [a community member](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions)
    if you need help, it could be a local configuration problem, or a misunderstanding in how the software works.
