docs/getting-started/proxies/caddy-2.md, before:

# Using Caddy 2 as Reverse Proxy

!!! info ""
    Should you experience problems with Caddy, we recommend that you ask the Caddy community for advice, as we cannot provide support for third-party software.

WebSocket proxying automatically works in Caddy 2. There is no need to enable this as necessary for Caddy 1, Apache,
and NGINX. In addition, Caddy 2 may [automatically create](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile/directives/tls) 
and update [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) HTTPS certificates.

!!! example
    ```
    example.com {
        reverse_proxy photoprism:2342
    }
    ```

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://caddyserver.com/docs/v2-upgrade#proxy)
for further details.

### Why Use a Proxy? ###

If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, **always run it behind a secure
HTTPS reverse proxy**. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
connect as well.

Commit message:

Getting Started: Update info box contents and colors
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/getting-started/proxies/caddy-2.md, after:

# Using Caddy 2 as Reverse Proxy

!!! tldr ""
    Should you experience problems with Caddy, we recommend that you ask the Caddy community for advice, as we cannot provide support for third-party software and services.

WebSocket proxying automatically works in Caddy 2. There is no need to enable this as necessary for Caddy 1, Apache,
and NGINX. In addition, Caddy 2 may [automatically create](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile/directives/tls) 
and update [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) HTTPS certificates.

!!! example
    ```
    example.com {
        reverse_proxy photoprism:2342
    }
    ```

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://caddyserver.com/docs/v2-upgrade#proxy)
for further details.

### Why Use a Proxy? ###

If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, **always run it behind a secure
HTTPS reverse proxy**. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
connect as well.

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.
