docs/getting-started/proxies/haproxy.md, before:

# Using HAPROXY as Reverse Proxy

!!! quote ""
    Help improve these docs! You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.

```bigquery
#frontend connection handling
#'photo' is the name of the subdomain
acl photo hdr(host) -i photo.example.com
use_backend be_photo_ipvANY if photo aclcrt_fe_http

#backend config
#be_photo is the name of the backend
backend be_photo_ipvANY
mode http
id 112
log global
timeout connect 30000
timeout server 30000
retries 3
load-server-state-from-file global
timeout queue 5s
timeout tunnel 2m
option redispatch

mode http
option forwardfor
no option httpclose

http-request set-header Host photo.example.com
http-request del-header  X-Frame-Options
http-request del-header  Connection
http-request add-header  X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN
http-request add-header  Connection Upgrade
             # Websocket configuration
             acl is_websocket hdr(Upgrade) -i WebSocket
acl is_websocket hdr_beg(Host) -i ws
             # photoprism ip address and port
server photo x.x.x.x:2342 id 106  
```

Commit message:

Getting Started: Add disclaimer for third-party apps

docs/getting-started/proxies/haproxy.md, after:

# Using HAPROXY as Reverse Proxy

!!! quote ""
Help improve these docs! You can contribute by clicking :material-pencil: to send a pull request with your changes.

!!! info "Getting Support"
    Should you experience problems with Haproxy, we recommend that you ask the Haproxy community for advice, as we cannot provide support for third-party software.



```bigquery
#frontend connection handling
#'photo' is the name of the subdomain
acl photo hdr(host) -i photo.example.com
use_backend be_photo_ipvANY if photo aclcrt_fe_http

#backend config
#be_photo is the name of the backend
backend be_photo_ipvANY
mode http
id 112
log global
timeout connect 30000
timeout server 30000
retries 3
load-server-state-from-file global
timeout queue 5s
timeout tunnel 2m
option redispatch

mode http
option forwardfor
no option httpclose

http-request set-header Host photo.example.com
http-request del-header  X-Frame-Options
http-request del-header  Connection
http-request add-header  X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN
http-request add-header  Connection Upgrade
             # Websocket configuration
             acl is_websocket hdr(Upgrade) -i WebSocket
acl is_websocket hdr_beg(Host) -i ws
             # photoprism ip address and port
server photo x.x.x.x:2342 id 106  
```
