docs/getting-started/proxies/nginx.md, before:

# Using NGINX as Reverse Proxy

!!! info ""
    If you are experiencing problems with [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/), such as failed uploads, [connection errors](../troubleshooting/index.md#connection-fails), [broken thumbnails](../troubleshooting/index.md#broken-thumbnails), and [video playback problems](../troubleshooting/index.md#videos-dont-play), please consider [asking the NGINX community for advice](https://www.nginx.com/support/), as we do not specialize in supporting their product, which is [notoriously difficult](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+nginx) to configure. Instead, we recommend [using Traefik as a reverse proxy](traefik.md) as this is easier and more convenient.

This [tutorial](https://www.serverlab.ca/tutorials/linux/web-servers-linux/how-to-configure-nginx-for-websockets/) explains, how to configure NGINX WebSocket connections between your client and backend services.

!!! example
    ```
    http {
      server {
        listen 80 ssl;
        listen [::]:80 ssl;
        server_name example.com;
        client_max_body_size 500M;
    
        # With SSL via Let's Encrypt
        ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem; # managed by Certbot
        include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_dhparam /etc/letsencrypt/ssl-dhparams.pem; # managed by Certbot

        location / {
          proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
          proxy_set_header Host $host;
    
          proxy_pass http://photoprism:2342;
    
          proxy_buffering off;
          proxy_http_version 1.1;
          proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
          proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
          
          client_max_body_size 500M;
        }
      }
    }
    ```

At the very least you will need to adapt `server_name` and the `ssl_certificate`/`ssl_certificate_key` paths to match your setup. Please refer to their [official documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/) for further details.

[View "Pitfalls and Common Mistakes" ›](https://www.nginx.com/nginx-wiki/build/dirhtml/start/topics/tutorials/config_pitfalls/)

### Why Use a Proxy? ###

If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, **always run it behind a secure
HTTPS reverse proxy**. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
connect as well.

![](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/diagrams/reverse-proxy.svg){ class="w100" }

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-file-edit-outline: to send a pull request with your changes.

Commit message:

Getting Started: Update nginx.md

docs/getting-started/proxies/nginx.md, after:

# Using NGINX as Reverse Proxy

!!! danger "Getting Support"
    Since [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) is [notoriously difficult](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+nginx) to configure, we unfortunately can't offer you support in case something isn't working. If you have NGINX related issues such as failed uploads, [connection errors](../troubleshooting/index.md#connection-fails), [broken thumbnails](../troubleshooting/index.md#broken-thumbnails), and [video playback problems](../troubleshooting/index.md#videos-dont-play), we recommend that you [ask the NGINX community for advice](https://www.nginx.com/support/) or try to [use Traefik as a reverse proxy](traefik.md), as it is easier to configure and much more convenient to work with overall.

This [tutorial](https://www.serverlab.ca/tutorials/linux/web-servers-linux/how-to-configure-nginx-for-websockets/) explains, how to configure NGINX WebSocket connections between your client and backend services.

!!! example
    ```
    http {
      server {
        listen 80 ssl;
        listen [::]:80 ssl;
        server_name example.com;
        client_max_body_size 500M;
    
        # With SSL via Let's Encrypt
        ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem; # managed by Certbot
        include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_dhparam /etc/letsencrypt/ssl-dhparams.pem; # managed by Certbot

        location / {
          proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
          proxy_set_header Host $host;
    
          proxy_pass http://photoprism:2342;
    
          proxy_buffering off;
          proxy_http_version 1.1;
          proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
          proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
          
          client_max_body_size 500M;
        }
      }
    }
    ```

At the very least you will need to adapt `server_name` and the `ssl_certificate`/`ssl_certificate_key` paths to match your setup. Please refer to their [official documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/) for further details.

[View "Pitfalls and Common Mistakes" ›](https://www.nginx.com/nginx-wiki/build/dirhtml/start/topics/tutorials/config_pitfalls/)

### Why Use a Proxy? ###

If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, **always run it behind a secure
HTTPS reverse proxy**. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
connect as well.

![](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/diagrams/reverse-proxy.svg){ class="w100" }

!!! example ""
    **Help improve these docs!** You can contribute by clicking :material-file-edit-outline: to send a pull request with your changes.
