docs/getting-started/proxies/traefik.md, before:

# Using Traefik as Reverse Proxy

WebSocket proxying automatically works with [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/). 
There is no need to enable this as necessary for Caddy 1, Apache,
and NGINX. In addition, Traefik may [automatically create](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/user-guides/docker-compose/acme-http/) and update 
[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) HTTPS certificates.

Our example shows a working configuration, excluding general PhotoPrism [config options](../config-options.md) 
documented in [Setup Using Docker Compose](../docker-compose.md):

!!! example "docker-compose.yml"
    ```yaml
    services:
      traefik:
        image: traefik:v2.2
        restart: unless-stopped
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
        volumes:
          - "./traefik.yaml:/etc/traefik/traefik.yaml"
          - "./traefik/data:/data"
          - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"

      photoprism:
        image: photoprism/photoprism:latest
        restart: unless-stopped
        labels:
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.rule=Host(`example.com`)"
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.tls=true"
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.tls.certresolver=myresolver"
        volumes:
          - "./originals:/photoprism/originals"
          - "./storage:/photoprism/storage"
        environment:
            PHOTOPRISM_SITE_URL: "https://example.com/"
    ```


!!! example "traefik.yaml"
    ```yaml
    entryPoints:
      web:
        address: ":80"
        http:
          redirections:
            entryPoint:
              to: websecure
      websecure:
        address: ":443"
    
    providers:
      docker: {}
        
    certificatesResolvers:
      myresolver:
        acme:
          email: you@example.com
          storage: /data/letsencrypt.json
          httpChallenge:
            entryPoint: web
    ```

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/user-guides/docker-compose/basic-example/)
for further details.

!!! tldr ""
    If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, please always run it behind a secure
    HTTPS reverse proxy. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
    by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
    connect as well.

Commit message:

Getting Started: Update Reverse Proxy docs
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/getting-started/proxies/traefik.md, after:

# Using Traefik as Reverse Proxy

!!! check "Best Choice"
    - No special settings required in combination with modern web applications
    - WebSocket proxying automatically works
    - [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/) can [create and update](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/user-guides/docker-compose/acme-http/)  [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) HTTPS certificates for you

Our example shows a working configuration, excluding general PhotoPrism [config options](../config-options.md) 
documented in [Setup Using Docker Compose](../docker-compose.md):

!!! example "docker-compose.yml"
    ```yaml
    services:
      traefik:
        image: traefik:v2.2
        restart: unless-stopped
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
        volumes:
          - "./traefik.yaml:/etc/traefik/traefik.yaml"
          - "./traefik/data:/data"
          - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"

      photoprism:
        image: photoprism/photoprism:latest
        restart: unless-stopped
        labels:
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.rule=Host(`example.com`)"
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.tls=true"
          - "traefik.http.routers.photoprism.tls.certresolver=myresolver"
        volumes:
          - "./originals:/photoprism/originals"
          - "./storage:/photoprism/storage"
        environment:
            PHOTOPRISM_SITE_URL: "https://example.com/"
    ```


!!! example "traefik.yaml"
    ```yaml
    entryPoints:
      web:
        address: ":80"
        http:
          redirections:
            entryPoint:
              to: websecure
      websecure:
        address: ":443"
    
    providers:
      docker: {}
        
    certificatesResolvers:
      myresolver:
        acme:
          email: you@example.com
          storage: /data/letsencrypt.json
          httpChallenge:
            entryPoint: web
    ```

Please refer to the [official documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/user-guides/docker-compose/basic-example/)
for further details.

!!! tldr "Why use a reverse proxy?"
    If you install PhotoPrism on a public server outside your home network, please always run it behind a secure
    HTTPS reverse proxy. Your files and passwords will otherwise be transmitted in clear text and can be intercepted
    by anyone, including your provider, hackers, and governments. Backup tools and file sync apps may refuse to
    connect as well.
