docs/contribute.md, before:

# How to contribute

We welcome contributions of any kind including pull requests, ideas, bug reports,
testing, writing documentation, tutorials and blog posts.

## Questions?

Join our [developers mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/photoprism.org/forum/#!forum/developers)
to receive regular project updates, get in contact with other contributors and discuss your ideas. Don't be afraid to ask stupid questions.

## Pull requests

Issues labeled [help wanted](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/help%20wanted) /
[easy](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/easy) can be good (first) contributions.
Our [Developer Guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki) contains all information necessary to get you started.

We welcome all contributors and contributions regardless of skill or experience level.
If you are interested in helping with the project, we will help you with your contribution.

Our [step-by-step guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Pull-Requests) explains how to submit new features, bugfixes and documentation.

## Feature requests

You are welcome to add specific feature requests directly to our [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues)
if no similar [idea](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/idea)
or [todo](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/todo) already exists.
Please don't use the issue tracker to ask general questions. We also maintain a couple of
pages in our [Developer Guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki) for collecting interesting ideas and feedback, e.g.
[Related](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Related),
[Love](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Love),
[Concerns](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Concerns) and
[Research](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Research).

## Reporting bugs

Please use the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues) to report clearly identified bugs and impediments to us.
If you're not sure, start by asking in our [help forum](https://groups.google.com/a/photoprism.org/forum/#!forum/help) or [contact us via email](mailto:hello@photoprism.org).
When reporting an issue, please provide the version in use and information about your environment like browser, operating system, installed memory, and processor type.

## Donations

Please leave a star on [GitHub](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism) if you like this project, it provides enough motivation to keep going.
Thank you very much! <3

Commit message:

Change intro on contribute page

docs/contribute.md, after:

# Every contribution makes a difference

Think of open source development as free training with a visible end result.
It is much easier to learn new technologies this way than at work, where most
companies try to reduce risk and development effort is focused on monetization.

We welcome contributions of any kind including pull requests, ideas, bug reports,
testing, writing documentation, tutorials and blog posts. If you help with development,
you have the opportunity to learn Docker, Go, TensorFlow and much more.

## Questions?

Join our [developers mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/photoprism.org/forum/#!forum/developers)
to receive regular project updates, get in contact with other contributors and discuss your ideas. Don't be afraid to ask stupid questions.

## Pull requests

Issues labeled [help wanted](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/help%20wanted) /
[easy](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/easy) can be good (first) contributions.
Our [Developer Guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki) contains all information necessary to get you started.

We welcome all contributors and contributions regardless of skill or experience level.
If you are interested in helping with the project, we will help you with your contribution.

Our [step-by-step guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Pull-Requests) explains how to submit new features, bugfixes and documentation.

## Feature requests

You are welcome to add specific feature requests directly to our [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues)
if no similar [idea](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/idea)
or [todo](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/labels/todo) already exists.
Please don't use the issue tracker to ask general questions. We also maintain a couple of
pages in our [Developer Guide](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki) for collecting interesting ideas and feedback, e.g.
[Related](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Related),
[Love](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Love),
[Concerns](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Concerns) and
[Research](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/wiki/Research).

## Reporting bugs

Please use the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues) to report clearly identified bugs and impediments to us.
If you're not sure, start by asking in our [help forum](https://groups.google.com/a/photoprism.org/forum/#!forum/help) or [contact us via email](mailto:hello@photoprism.org).
When reporting an issue, please provide the version in use and information about your environment like browser, operating system, installed memory, and processor type.

## Donations

Please leave a star on [GitHub](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism) if you like this project, it provides enough motivation to keep going.
Thank you very much! <3
