docs/contact.md, before:

# Whatever it is, we'd love to hear from you!

[![Community Chat](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-chat-on-gitter.svg)][chat]
[![GitHub Discussions](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-ask-on-github.svg)][ask]
[![PIXLS.US Forum](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-pixls-us.svg)][pixls]
[![Twitter](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-twitter.svg)][twitter]
[![Reddit](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-reddit.svg)][reddit]

*While we continue to work towards our vision, we receive an extremely high volume of emails and contact requests. Please bear with us if we are unable to get back to you immediately. We do our best to respond within five business days or less.*

If you are seeking help with installing PhotoPrism at home, our [Reddit Community](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit) and [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat) are a great place to start! Technical issues? Our [troubleshooting checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) help you quickly diagnose and solve them.

You may contact us at [privacy@photoprism.app](mailto:privacy@photoprism.app) if you have specific questions about our [Privacy Policy](https://photoprism.app/privacy) or [GDPR Compliance Statement](https://photoprism.app/privacy/gdpr).

[Security vulnerabilities](https://photoprism.app/security-policy) can be reported to [security@photoprism.app](mailto:security@photoprism.app). This ensures that your report does not get lost and that we can react as quickly as possible.

By using our website, app and/or services, you agree to our [Terms of Service](https://photoprism.app/terms).

#### Technical Support ####

Sponsors are welcome to contact us at [sponsors@photoprism.app](mailto:sponsors@photoprism.app) for technical support and assistance with enabling sponsor features.

#### File Samples ####

Image and video file samples for testing can be sent to [samples@photoprism.app](mailto:samples@photoprism.app). This ensures they don't get lost in the flood of other emails we receive every day.

The subject should contain the file extensions as well as the GitHub [issue number](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues) or any other reference that can be helpful. Also let us know if we have permission to upload your sample files to [dl.photoprism.app/samples](https://dl.photoprism.app/samples/) so that they can be used by our automated test suite and other developers.

#### General Inquiries ####

Feel free to contact us at [hello@photoprism.app](mailto:hello@photoprism.app) if you have general questions, want to support our work, or just want to say hello.

Responsible for editorial content according to § 5 TMG / § 55 RStV:

<address>
  PhotoPrism UG (haftungsbeschränkt)<br />
  Zimmermannstr. 37<br />
  12163 Berlin<br />
  Germany
</address>

Commercial Register Berlin, HRB 240600 B

## PhotoPrism® Trademark ##

Please always use our [official logo](https://dl.photoprism.org/img/logo/logo.svg), do not alter it in any way,
and avoid overlapping with other logos or images.

When referring to PhotoPrism, make sure that it is spelled correctly:

* the name has two capital letters, so Photoprism is not a correct spelling
* PhotoPrism is one word and must not be separated into two words

Our [trademark and brand guidelines](https://photoprism.app/trademark), which may be updated from time to time,
describe how our Brand Assets may be used. It is important to us that any permitted use of our Brand Assets is
fair and meets the highest standards.

## Sustainability and Environmental Protection ##
<img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/green-power.svg" width="130" style="padding: 0 0 30px 30px; float: right;">
Sustainability has been a core value for us from the beginning. That's why we ensure our office and hosting infrastructure is powered by 100% climate-neutral, renewable energy.

More information can be found on the website of [Polarstern Energie](https://link.photoprism.app/polarstern "100% certified renewable energy"), the electricity provider for our Berlin office, as well as in the statements of our infrastructure partners [Hetzner Online](https://link.photoprism.app/sustainability-hetzner "Backend Services") and [DigitalOcean](https://link.photoprism.app/sustainability-digitalocean "DNS and Cloud Hosting").

We do not engage in crypto mining at this time and will fully assess the environmental impact before permanently adopting any distributed ledger technologies.

[chat]: https://link.photoprism.app/chat
[ask]: https://link.photoprism.app/discussions
[reddit]: https://link.photoprism.app/reddit
[pixls]: https://link.photoprism.app/pixls-us
[twitter]: https://link.photoprism.app/twitter

Commit message:

User Guide: Update Footer, FAQs, Support Info & Contact Details
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/contact.md, after:

# Whatever it is, we'd love to hear from you!

[![Community Chat](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-chat-on-gitter.svg)][chat]
[![GitHub Discussions](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-ask-on-github.svg)][ask]
[![PIXLS.US Forum](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-pixls-us.svg)][pixls]
[![Twitter](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-twitter.svg)][twitter]
[![Reddit](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/badge-reddit.svg)][reddit]

*While we continue to work towards our vision, we receive an extremely high volume of emails and contact requests. Please bear with us if we are unable to get back to you immediately. We do our best to respond within five business days or less.*

If you need help installing our software at home, you can [join us on Reddit](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit), ask in our [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat), or post your question in [GitHub Discussions](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions)! Common problems can be quickly diagnosed and solved using the [Troubleshooting Checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in [Getting Started](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/).

You may contact us at [privacy@photoprism.app](mailto:privacy@photoprism.app) if you have specific questions about our [Privacy Policy](https://photoprism.app/privacy) or [GDPR Compliance Statement](https://photoprism.app/privacy/gdpr).
Security researchers may [report vulnerabilities](https://photoprism.app/security-policy) to [security@photoprism.app](mailto:security@photoprism.app) so they do not get lost and we can respond without delay.

By using our software and/or services, you agree to our [terms of service](https://photoprism.app/terms), [privacy policy](https://photoprism.app/privacy), and [code of conduct](https://photoprism.app/code-of-conduct).

#### Technical Support ####

In exchange for their continued support, [Sponsors](funding.md) are also welcome to request direct technical [support via email](mailto:sponsors@photoprism.app). Please bear with us if we are unable to get back to you immediately. We do our best to respond within five business days or less.

#### File Samples ####

Image and video file samples for testing can be sent to [samples@photoprism.app](mailto:samples@photoprism.app). This ensures they don't get lost in the flood of other emails we receive every day.

The subject should contain the file extensions as well as the GitHub [issue number](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues) or any other reference that can be helpful. Also let us know if we have permission to upload your sample files to [dl.photoprism.app/samples](https://dl.photoprism.app/samples/) so that they can be used by our automated test suite and other developers.

#### General Inquiries ####

Feel free to contact us at [hello@photoprism.app](mailto:hello@photoprism.app) if you have general questions, want to support our work, or just want to say hello.

Responsible for editorial content according to § 5 TMG / § 55 RStV:

<address>
  PhotoPrism UG (haftungsbeschränkt)<br />
  Zimmermannstr. 37<br />
  12163 Berlin<br />
  Germany
</address>

Commercial Register Berlin, HRB 240600 B

## PhotoPrism® Trademark ##

Please always use our [official logo](https://dl.photoprism.org/img/logo/logo.svg), do not alter it in any way,
and avoid overlapping with other logos or images.

When referring to PhotoPrism, make sure that it is spelled correctly:

* the name has two capital letters, so Photoprism is not a correct spelling
* PhotoPrism is one word and must not be separated into two words

Our [trademark and brand guidelines](https://photoprism.app/trademark), which may be updated from time to time,
describe how our Brand Assets may be used. It is important to us that any permitted use of our Brand Assets is
fair and meets the highest standards.

## Sustainability and Environmental Protection ##
<img src="https://dl.photoprism.app/img/badges/green-power.svg" width="130" style="padding: 0 0 30px 30px; float: right;">
Sustainability has been a core value for us from the beginning. That's why we ensure our office and hosting infrastructure is powered by 100% climate-neutral, renewable energy.

More information can be found on the website of [Polarstern Energie](https://link.photoprism.app/polarstern "100% certified renewable energy"), the electricity provider for our Berlin office, as well as in the statements of our infrastructure partners [Hetzner Online](https://link.photoprism.app/sustainability-hetzner "Backend Services") and [DigitalOcean](https://link.photoprism.app/sustainability-digitalocean "DNS and Cloud Hosting").

We do not engage in crypto mining at this time and will fully assess the environmental impact before permanently adopting any distributed ledger technologies.

[chat]: https://link.photoprism.app/chat
[ask]: https://link.photoprism.app/discussions
[reddit]: https://link.photoprism.app/reddit
[pixls]: https://link.photoprism.app/pixls-us
[twitter]: https://link.photoprism.app/twitter
