docs/funding.md, before:

# Funding

It's clear many users are waiting for a stable release while only very few donate or help with development. 
This project is about freedom but not necessarily about free beer.

We are not Google and don't have billions of dollars on our bank accounts to give away to our fans in exchange for their data.
It's also somewhat disappointing how little support we get by companies and especially public organizations. 
Not a single dollar. 

Every politician wants to support Open Source and warns social media is bad for your privacy, but only very 
few are willing to help those that actually do something.

The consequence is that we are forced to think about monetization. We honestly didn't expect this will be an issue 
and didn't ask for anything the first year. Thank you very much to our few sponsors! 
We still love each and everyone of you, even those that send multiple pages of written requirements and then ask 
every week when it is done.

Specific solutions could be to...

  - sell a tested & supported version in the app store while our contributors and other developers can 
    continue to use Docker or build from source
  - offer a geodata, public events and maps subscription since OpenStreetMap doesn't want us to use their development 
    API for production

## Donations

You're most welcome to support us via [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/lastzero), 
especially if you need help with using our software. They will match every donation in the first year.
In addition, you can find us on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photoprism) and [PayPal](https://www.paypal.me/photoprism). 
Our sponsors and contributors will get for free whatever we might have to charge for a geodata subscription later.

Also please [leave a star](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/stargazers) on GitHub if you like this project, 
it provides additional motivation to keep going.

Ideas backed by a sponsor are marked with a golden [sponsor](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asponsor) label.
Let us know if we mistakenly label an idea as [unfunded](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aunfunded).

Thank you very much! <3

## Public and corporate sponsorship ##

Our software is now almost done after two years of hard work, some days 16 to 20 hours on top of other projects we
did to finance this. We spent weeks asking organizations like [The Prototype Fund](https://prototypefund.de/en/) 
for help and also tried to cooperate with companies like Mapbox and Cewe. We have been ignored and even given
the advice that what we do "already exists in America".

If any of those organizations changes their mind, they are welcome to [reach out to us](mailto:hello@photoprism.org).

## The bigger picture ##

The funding situation of popular Open Source projects is especially bitter in the face of massive money printing 
by central banks all over the world. Much of this goes to large corporations that buy back shares
to the personal benefit of their managers and to investors that drive up housing costs. Did you know the 
[Swiss National Bank](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-08-02/snb-s-pile-of-u-s-shares-hits-93-billion-on-buoyant-markets)
owns more A-class Facebook shares than Mark Zuckerberg?

These are the organizations and people you're competing with as independent developer.

Commit message:

Add "Lessons learned" to funding.md

docs/funding.md, after:

# Funding

It's clear many users are waiting for a stable release while only very few donate or help with development. 
This project is about freedom but not necessarily about free beer.

We are not Google and don't have billions of dollars on our bank accounts to give away to our fans in exchange for their data.
It's also somewhat disappointing how little support we get by companies and especially public organizations. 
Not a single dollar. 

Every politician wants to support Open Source and warns social media is bad for your privacy, but only very 
few are willing to help those that actually do something.

The consequence is that we are forced to think about monetization. We honestly didn't expect this will be an issue 
and didn't ask for anything the first year. Thank you very much to our few sponsors! 
We still love each and everyone of you, even those that send multiple pages of written requirements and then ask 
every week when it is done.

Specific solutions could be to...

  - sell a tested & supported version in the app store while our contributors and other developers can 
    continue to use Docker or build from source
  - offer a geodata, public events and maps subscription since OpenStreetMap doesn't want us to use their development 
    API for production

## Donations

You're most welcome to support us via [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/lastzero), 
especially if you need help with using our software. They will match every donation in the first year.
In addition, you can find us on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photoprism) and [PayPal](https://www.paypal.me/photoprism). 
Our sponsors and contributors will get for free whatever we might have to charge for a geodata subscription later.

Also please [leave a star](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/stargazers) on GitHub if you like this project, 
it provides additional motivation to keep going.

Ideas backed by a sponsor are marked with a golden [sponsor](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asponsor) label.
Let us know if we mistakenly label an idea as [unfunded](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aunfunded).

Thank you very much! <3

## Lessons learned ##

Having done mostly commercial projects in the last 10+ years, it is important for us to explore various forms of funding
and communication for independent Open Source projects. Note that many of today's popular projects are funded by 
corporations like Google, Facebook, Microsoft or Intel. That's a good thing and we profit from it, but doesn't 
mean independent developers should not do this full-time or pay everything themselves without asking the community for
support. In fact, crowdfunding is a pretty common way to cover development expenses if you look at 
[Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/) or [Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/).

In no way do we spurn other OSS projects like OpenStreetMap, as a Twitter user suggested. We just state the fact
that even a non-commercial app can't use their API for production, which is perfectly OK. On the other hand,
it also doesn't mean we have to provide this service for free to our users. We've learned that money is a
very sensitive topic most of our users don't engage with and even try to avoid. No wonder most founders go the
easy way, take venture capital and sell licenses for their software.

## Public and corporate sponsorship ##

Our software is now almost done after two years of hard work, some days 16 to 20 hours on top of other projects we
did to finance this. We spent weeks asking organizations like [The Prototype Fund](https://prototypefund.de/en/) 
for help and also tried to cooperate with companies like Mapbox and Cewe. We have been ignored and even given
the advice that what we do "already exists in America".

If any of those organizations changes their mind, they are welcome to [reach out to us](mailto:hello@photoprism.org).

## The bigger picture ##

The funding situation of popular Open Source projects is especially bitter in the face of massive money printing 
by central banks all over the world. Much of this goes to large corporations that buy back shares
to the personal benefit of their managers and to investors that drive up housing costs. Did you know the 
[Swiss National Bank](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-08-02/snb-s-pile-of-u-s-shares-hits-93-billion-on-buoyant-markets)
owns more A-class Facebook shares than Mark Zuckerberg?

These are the organizations and people you're competing with as independent developer.
