docs/index.md, before:

# PhotoPrism: Browse Your Life in Pictures

PhotoPrism® is a privately hosted app for browsing, organizing, and sharing your photo collection. 
It makes use of the latest technologies to tag and find pictures automatically without getting in your way. 
Say goodbye to uploading your visual memories to the cloud!

![Screenshot](https://dl.photoprism.org/assets/img/preview.jpg)

## Features ##

* PhotoPrism® makes browsing and organizing your pictures as easy as it should be, whether it’s on a phone, tablet, or desktop computer
* Because the [user interface](https://demo.photoprism.org/) is a [Progressive Web App](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps),
  it provides a native app-like experience, and you can easily install it on the home screen of common operating systems and devices
* Includes four high-resolution [world maps](https://demo.photoprism.org/places) to see where you've been,
  and for rediscovering long-forgotten shots
* Enjoy privacy-preserving face detection and recognition 💎
* AI-powered [image classification](https://docs.photoprism.org/developer-guide/metadata/classification/)
  based on Google TensorFlow
* Metadata can be extracted and merged from Exif, XMP, and proprietary formats such as Google Photos JSON sidecar files
* Image properties like _colors_, _chroma_, _luminance_, _quality_, _panoramic projection_, and _location type_
  will be detected automatically whenever you update the index or add new files
* Index all your photos and videos without worrying about duplicates, [RAW to JPEG conversion](https://docs.photoprism.org/user-guide/settings/library/), or video transcoding
* Use [PhotoSync](https://www.photosync-app.com/) to securely backup iOS and Android mobile devices in the background
* WebDAV clients, like Microsoft’s Windows Explorer or Apple's Finder, may
  [connect](https://docs.photoprism.org/user-guide/sync/webdav/) directly to PhotoPrism so that you to can open,
  edit, and delete files from your computer or phone as if they were local

<p style="text-align: center; padding: 20px 4px;">
<a class="md-button" style="background-color: #546e7a; font-size: 0.66rem; font-weight: normal; color: white" href="https://demo.photoprism.org/" target="_blank">TRY OUR DEMO</a>
<a class="md-button" style="background-color: #546e7a; font-size: 0.66rem; font-weight: normal; color: white" href="/getting-started/">GET STARTED</a>
</p>

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted community edition can be found 
in the [Setup Guide](getting-started/index.md).
All you need is a Web browser and Docker to run the server. It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows.

Commit message:

Update Getting Started info on landing page
Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

docs/index.md, after:

# PhotoPrism: Browse Your Life in Pictures

PhotoPrism® is a privately hosted app for browsing, organizing, and sharing your photo collection. 
It makes use of the latest technologies to tag and find pictures automatically without getting in your way. 
Say goodbye to uploading your visual memories to the cloud!

![Screenshot](https://dl.photoprism.org/assets/img/preview.jpg)

## Features ##

* PhotoPrism® makes browsing and organizing your pictures as easy as it should be, whether it’s on a phone, tablet, or desktop computer
* Because the [user interface](https://demo.photoprism.org/) is a [Progressive Web App](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps),
  it provides a native app-like experience, and you can easily install it on the home screen of common operating systems and devices
* Includes four high-resolution [world maps](https://demo.photoprism.org/places) to see where you've been,
  and for rediscovering long-forgotten shots
* Enjoy privacy-preserving face detection and recognition 💎
* AI-powered [image classification](https://docs.photoprism.org/developer-guide/metadata/classification/)
  based on Google TensorFlow
* Metadata can be extracted and merged from Exif, XMP, and proprietary formats such as Google Photos JSON sidecar files
* Image properties like _colors_, _chroma_, _luminance_, _quality_, _panoramic projection_, and _location type_
  will be detected automatically whenever you update the index or add new files
* Index all your photos and videos without worrying about duplicates, [RAW to JPEG conversion](https://docs.photoprism.org/user-guide/settings/library/), or video transcoding
* Use [PhotoSync](https://www.photosync-app.com/) to securely backup iOS and Android mobile devices in the background
* WebDAV clients, like Microsoft’s Windows Explorer or Apple's Finder, may
  [connect](https://docs.photoprism.org/user-guide/sync/webdav/) directly to PhotoPrism so that you to can open,
  edit, and delete files from your computer or phone as if they were local

<p style="text-align: center; padding: 20px 4px;">
<a class="md-button" style="background-color: #546e7a; font-size: 0.66rem; font-weight: normal; color: white" href="https://demo.photoprism.org/" target="_blank">TRY OUR DEMO</a>
<a class="md-button" style="background-color: #546e7a; font-size: 0.66rem; font-weight: normal; color: white" href="/getting-started/">GET STARTED</a>
</p>

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted community edition can be found 
in [Getting Started](getting-started/index.md). All you need to have installed on your 
system is a Web browser and [Docker](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community).
It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows.
