docs/team.md, before:

# Who we are

## Andrea Ceroni ##

Andrea is a data scientist specialized in temporal information retrieval and machine learning.
He holds a PhD in Computer Science from the Leibniz University of Hannover (L3S Research Center) and wrote numerous papers on topics such as
[Personal Photo Management and Preservation](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Andrea_Ceroni/publication/323222448_Personal_Photo_Management_and_Preservation/links/5a995f8da6fdcc3cbac8fa59/Personal-Photo-Management-and-Preservation.pdf)
and [Photo Selection Models for Personal Photo Collections](https://www.iti.gr/~bmezaris/publications/hmmp@icme2015_2_preprint.pdf).

You can find him on [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=JHsQY5YAAAAJ&hl=en) and [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrea-ceroni/)

## Theresa Gresch ##

Theresa works as a freelance product manager and developer in Berlin. She has a Master's in Neurobiology
and aims to dive deeper into machine learning while working on this project.

You can find her on [GitHub](https://github.com/graciousgrey) and [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/theresa-gresch-886924103/)

## Michael Mayer ##

Michael learned coding on an Atari 1040 ST and started his first open-source projects in the 90s. He has more than 20 years of experience in building Web applications.
His motivation is to explore the latest technologies and build an amazing product outside the constraints of a corporate environment.

You can find him on [GitHub](https://github.com/lastzero), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lastzero/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lastzero)

## ...and many more ##

Thank you to everyone who contributed to this project!
We do our best to mention those who contribute frequently or in a special way on this page.
Please [let us know](mailto:hello@photoprism.org) if you would like to be listed.
GitHub has a [full list of source code contributors](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/graphs/contributors).

Commit message:

Add Guy Sheffer to team page

docs/team.md, after:

# Who we are

## Andrea Ceroni ##

Andrea is a data scientist specialized in temporal information retrieval and machine learning.
He holds a PhD in Computer Science from the Leibniz University of Hannover (L3S Research Center) and wrote numerous papers on topics such as
[Personal Photo Management and Preservation](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Andrea_Ceroni/publication/323222448_Personal_Photo_Management_and_Preservation/links/5a995f8da6fdcc3cbac8fa59/Personal-Photo-Management-and-Preservation.pdf)
and [Photo Selection Models for Personal Photo Collections](https://www.iti.gr/~bmezaris/publications/hmmp@icme2015_2_preprint.pdf).

You can find him on [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=JHsQY5YAAAAJ&hl=en) and [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrea-ceroni/)

## Theresa Gresch ##

Theresa works as a freelance product manager and developer in Berlin. She has a Master's in Neurobiology
and aims to dive deeper into machine learning while working on this project.

You can find her on [GitHub](https://github.com/graciousgrey) and [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/theresa-gresch-886924103/)

## Michael Mayer ##

Michael learned coding on an Atari 1040 ST and started his first open-source projects in the 90s. He has more than 20 years of experience in building Web applications.
His motivation is to explore the latest technologies and build an amazing product outside the constraints of a corporate environment.

You can find him on [GitHub](https://github.com/lastzero), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lastzero/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lastzero)

## Guy Sheffer ##

Known as [GuySoft](https://github.com/guysoft) on the web. Active developer in the Free Software and Maker community.
Creator of [OctoPi](https://github.com/guysoft/OctoPi) and [FullPageOS](https://github.com/guysoft/FullPageOS), 
which have hundreds of thousands of downloads. Raspberry Pi distro expert. 
Currently VP R&D and Co-Founder at [ShapeDo](https://shapedo.com/).

## ...and many more ##

Thank you to everyone who contributed to this project!
We do our best to mention those who contribute frequently or in a special way on this page.
Please [let us know](mailto:hello@photoprism.org) if you would like to be listed.
GitHub has a [full list of source code contributors](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/graphs/contributors).
