docs/user-guide/settings/sync.md, before:

# Sync Settings

## Connect to a WebDAV Server ##

PhotoPrism may connect with WebDAV servers like Nextcloud, 
so that you can automatically sync your latest pictures.

**To connect:**

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync tab*
3. Click *Add Server*
    ![Screenshot](img/sync-1.png)
4. Fill in your WebDAV server url, username and password
5. Click *connect*
    ![Screenshot](img/sync-2.png)
6. Now your Nextcloud is connected with PhotoPrism

## Manually upload files to Nextcloud ##

**To configure manual upload:**

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync* tab
3. Click into the upload cell of your Nextcloud server

![Screenshot](img/sync-upload-1.png)
4. Select the folder to which photos should be uploaded and click *save*

![Screenshot](img/sync-upload-2.png)

**To upload files from PhotoPrism to Nextcloud:**

1. Go to *Photos*
2. Select photos you want to upload
3. Open the context menu
4. Click :material-cloud:
5. Select your nextcloud account and click *upload*

![Screenshot](img/upload-3.png)

!!! info 
    Only JPEGs are copied when uploading manually. 
    Support for RAW and video files will be added in a future release.

!!! attention
    Due to problems with some Nextcloud settings it might be that uploading to Nextcloud results in 0 byte files. You find information on how to solve it [here](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues/443).

## Backup/Sync files with Nextcloud ##

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync* tab
3. Click into the sync cell of your nextcloud server
![Screenshot](img/sync-sync-1.png)
4. Enable synchronization in the upper right corner
5. Choose the folder in which all your photos are located on Nextcloud
6. Select how often you want your files to be synced
7. Select the options that are suitable for you and click *save*

![Screenshot](img/sync-sync-2.png)

### Remote Sync Options ###

* *Download remote files* will download all files from your nextcloud that do not yet exist in PhotoPrism
* *Upload local files* will upload all files from PhotoPrism to your nextcloud folder that do not yet exist there
* *Preserve filenames* will keep filenames from Nextcloud without renaming them
* *Sync raw and video files* will upload/download raw and video files alongside with jpegs

Commit message:

Cross-reference WebDav/sync docs

docs/user-guide/settings/sync.md, after:

# Sync Settings

This page describes how PhotoPrism can sync files *from* an external storage system (like Nextcloud) via WebDAV.

!!! note
    PhotoPrism can also serve/share files via WebDAV to be browsed on macOS or Windows.
    See [instructions](/user-guide/sync/webdav/).

## Connect to a WebDAV Server ##

PhotoPrism may connect with WebDAV servers like Nextcloud,
so that you can automatically sync your latest pictures.

**To connect:**

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync tab*
3. Click *Add Server*
    ![Screenshot](img/sync-1.png)
4. Fill in your WebDAV server url, username and password
5. Click *connect*
    ![Screenshot](img/sync-2.png)
6. Now your Nextcloud is connected with PhotoPrism

## Manually upload files to Nextcloud ##

**To configure manual upload:**

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync* tab
3. Click into the upload cell of your Nextcloud server

![Screenshot](img/sync-upload-1.png)
4. Select the folder to which photos should be uploaded and click *save*

![Screenshot](img/sync-upload-2.png)

**To upload files from PhotoPrism to Nextcloud:**

1. Go to *Photos*
2. Select photos you want to upload
3. Open the context menu
4. Click :material-cloud:
5. Select your nextcloud account and click *upload*

![Screenshot](img/upload-3.png)

!!! info
    Only JPEGs are copied when uploading manually.
    Support for RAW and video files will be added in a future release.

!!! attention
    Due to problems with some Nextcloud settings it might be that uploading to Nextcloud results in 0 byte files. You find information on how to solve it [here](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/issues/443).

## Backup/Sync files with Nextcloud ##

1. Go to *Settings*
2. Open *Sync* tab
3. Click into the sync cell of your nextcloud server
![Screenshot](img/sync-sync-1.png)
4. Enable synchronization in the upper right corner
5. Choose the folder in which all your photos are located on Nextcloud
6. Select how often you want your files to be synced
7. Select the options that are suitable for you and click *save*

![Screenshot](img/sync-sync-2.png)

### Remote Sync Options ###

* *Download remote files* will download all files from your nextcloud that do not yet exist in PhotoPrism
* *Upload local files* will upload all files from PhotoPrism to your nextcloud folder that do not yet exist there
* *Preserve filenames* will keep filenames from Nextcloud without renaming them
* *Sync raw and video files* will upload/download raw and video files alongside with jpegs
